I think we've had a great run. I think
investors should feel good about that.
The AI theme has kicked back in.
>> The AI bullishness is there. I don't
think that that has changed.
>> Overall, these foundational supports are
what's driving markets.
>> I do think investors do need to prepare
for what could feel like a very
different second half.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Bramowitz, and An
Marie Hordern.
Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Four consecutive record
highs on the S&P 500 with US earnings
kicking into high gear. The spotlight
shining brighter on central bankers as
they debate the need for more rate cuts
with a little extra pressure from
President Trump. Earnings meanwhile
painting a mixed picture of the US
consumer. John and Anne Marie are off
today doing some personal research to
the travel industry. But I am not alone
and we are all lucky for that. Danny Ber
is joining me for the next 3 hours.
Danny, just another quiet week in the
decade that is 2025.
>> Yeah, 2025. It's been so quiet this
week. Quiet. Everything from hard hats
to Powell getting slapped on the back
from Trump to companies warning of
billions and tariff hits. You wouldn't
know it by looking at this market. To
your point, a fourth consecutive
all-time high, the 10th all-time high in
less than two dozen sessions. And which,
by the way, during all that time, the
S&P hasn't moved more than 1%. The
longest streak it's done that since
October of last year. It is as if the
summer meltup is in full force.
>> Yeah, summer meltup is the right way to
put it. Just each day eking out just a
little bit more in terms of gains and we
are getting some color around corporate
America and frankly global corporations
and how they're adapting and adjusting
to tariffs. It's a mixed picture. It's
really a lot of strength for the most
part overall in the United States, but
across the world a little bit more in
terms of potholes. It
>> It's so true, but I think some of the
animal spirits are back and you get this
from a lot of the financial firms. There
was Blackstone earlier in the week. John
Gray was speaking to the FT saying that
confidence has been restored, that the
animal spirits are back, that M&A boom
is coming. Goldman Sachs, we also
learned this week, isn't going to do
their second round of job cuts as
planned. So, that combined with a market
that's rallying even though there are
pockets of weakness, we can look through
it because of the animal spirits,
because of this confidence that seems to
be restored. And we'll get into the meme
stocks and some of the evidence of froth
there as well as the margin pressure
that people look at in terms of just how
much leverage there is being built up in
the system. But I want to speak to what
Michael Hartner was talking about with
his bubble concerns where he said when
you have the idea of loosening fiscal
policy at the same time as loosening
government regulations around the
financial sector, this is when you end
up with true bubble risk. So he started
to raise this uh in a in a note this
morning. What do you make of this this
sort of idea that down the road this
could be problematic, but in the near
term, well, it's unclear what this
means.
>> Well, kind of the best thing you can do
when a bubble is starting is go long, is
ride the bubble. That's kind of the
trade to do. But of course, in the long
term, it's an issue because of leverage,
which you highlighted, other things get
dislocated. It also brings to mind
something Ian Lincoln said earlier in
the week that as stocks start to hit a
record high as you get retail traders
who are putting it all in and gambling
on these types of meme stocks that you
get back into this environment that
maybe you need to start asking is a
wealth effect coming in that's just
going to exacerbate inflation and
exacerbate inflation at a time where we
don't know what tariffs will do in terms
of stoking prices. So maybe that needs
to be another factor on the Fed's mind
as they try to navigate where policy
goes from here.
>> Next week is a big week. We've got 38%
by market cap of the entire uh S&P 500
reporting earnings. We have of course
the Fed's meeting. A lot of eyes are
going to be on that particularly from uh
the White House. And then we've got the
jobs report all coming together at a
time when people are starting to worry
about a bubble and that means maybe you
need to get in even more so right now in
markets right now very quiet. You're
seeing not a lot of action. Uh stocks
basically fluctuating between gains and
losses a little bit down on the NASDAQ.
You could see bond yields creeping a
little bit higher, particularly on the
front end after yesterday's ECB decision
that really suggested maybe they could
stay on hold. Coming up this hour, we're
going to be speaking with Max Kentner of
HSBC as stocks look for a fifth straight
day of gains. Jason Thomas of Carile on
the impact of AI related capex boom on
the US economy and Tom Fitzgerald of TD
Cow. Following mixed results from the
airlines, we begin this hour with stocks
looking for a fifth straight day of
gains fluctuating between gains and
losses following a busy week of tech
earnings, trade deals, more of those on
the horizon. Max Katner of HSBC joining
us now. Max, the last time we spoke to
you after being a raging FOMO bull, you
really pulled back a little bit. So,
where are you as we look at sort of new
records being made every single day? Do
you lean in or do you lean out?
>> Yeah, good morning, Lisa. Oh, still very
much leaning in. Of course, we wrote a
note this week uh where we explored what
could go wrong, but uh very much
stressing could go wrong. It's not um I
I really don't really subscribe to the
notion of this being a bubble. I think
it would be a bubble if there wasn't um
growth behind it, if there wasn't
earnings behind it. But the reality is,
look, don't even look at the Q2
reporting season. Let's look at the last
reporting season. You know, we had a way
above uh average earnings beat rate. we
had way above um average surprise
factors and it's starting once again we
again having the Q2 reporting season
pretty healthy beat rates pretty healthy
surprise factors when we look at AI we
look at tech once again AI capex plans
are actually exceeding expectations
remember 6 months ago we've been all
very very worried around deepse what
that means for capex plans and not only
in Q1 had that has that in the S&P 500
exceeded expectations by 10% we're
starting uh in Q2 once again with that
exceeding even higher expectations. So
to me, none of that smells like a
bubble. It would be a bubble if there
was no, you know, if let's say people
were to slash these capex plans, if we
didn't see uh particularly great
earnings speed, if we already saw big
big a big big negative impact on
margins, on earnings from tariffs. None
of that really seems to be the case yet.
So with that earnings power player
behind it, I think the rally can stay
for at least through the summer. That
said, Michael Hartnett's point here is
that given all the strength that you're
talking about, why should central
bankers be cutting rates? The idea that
even though we are seeing this strength,
this resilience, this lack of any kind
of pain relative uh to the tariffs and
some of the fears that we've seen
heading into this year, we continue to
see record highs and yet we still see
central bankers talking about rate cuts.
How predicated is the idea of a further
melt up on this idea that we are going
to get dovish central bankers?
Yeah, look, I I would be worried a lot
more if, let's say, the 30-year was
approaching 5 and a half, if the 10-year
was already above 4.7 4.8%. One of the
models that we look at internally is
what we call the danger zone. The danger
zone when it really starts hitting risk
assets when the level of yields or the
increase the velocity of the change in
yields is simply starting to be too much
for risk assets to stomach. that sort of
level on the 10 years starts at around
470 475. So, you know, we're a good 3540
basis points away from that. If we were
already at that level, I would totally
agree. I think then I'd be like, you
know what, it's it's a bit tricky
because if indeed we get a bit more
hawkishness, yields uh further up that
indeed would be stoking a little bit of
fear on spread valuations on equity
valuations, but we are quite a you know
quite far away from that kind of level.
So, that's number one. Number two is I
think risk assets don't really care as
long as the idea of rate cuts keeps you
know keeps being alive. That is totally
fine. Do we really do do equity
investors do spread investors you know
do we really care whether they're going
to cut in September or whether it's only
December? You know that's probably a
rates trade. It's a trade whether you've
got the receiver or the payer for
September on. Fine. Yeah. if if you got
some trade on the front end on but for
risk assets overall particularly with
that backup and yield that we had on the
last couple of weeks it doesn't really
matter as long as the Fed says look down
the road in the next 12 18 months yeah
the next uh the next step is going to be
a cut that's totally sufficient for risk
assets to rally further
>> Max what does that mean as to how risk
assets would react for example next
Friday we get jobs data if you start to
see some real deterioration in the labor
market
>> yeah look if we if we were to see some
uh real deterioration in the labor
market, fine. Of course, we could have a
little bit of risk off, but bear in
mind, I don't think that would be
particularly sustained and and I
actually would say even if if the Fed on
Wednesday, for example, was to sound a
little bit more hawkish. Again, yeah,
fine. Maybe the front end goes up a bit
and that puts a bit of pressure on
valuations, but other than 2 3 4% down,
I have real trouble both with weakness
in the labor market and with a more
hawkish Fed, that that really changes
the picture cuz once again, it's the
growth, it's the earnings picture that
is really really solid and that really I
think that really puts into question
that notion of this being a bubble,
right? That that really really puts it
into question. I think we would need to
see proper proper weakness in the labor
market. you know the unemployment rate
going up to like 4.3 4.4%.
That is then where we be we'd be calling
into question the uh the validity of
this rally right before that I think
it's just a tiny bit of correction a
pretty healthy correction in in this way
up in risk assets. Max not to put too
much weight on his note but again part
of Michael Hartnett's point was that
what we're seeing is central banks
globally loosening policy. What we're
seeing is governments globally putting
stimulus. I mean just look at Europe and
the spending that's going to happen
there in terms of the military and
defense max what you're describing to
what degree is it a global phenomenon
>> it is it is indeed yes uh I do think I
mean it's Europe and US it's other
jurisdictions as well and of course what
that means is it means probably for the
foreseeable future for the next couple
of quarters at least we will continue to
have a pretty strong and pretty high
nominal growth world. What do you do
when there's a higher nominal growth
world? And what do you do if perhaps
inflation does
remain a little bit stickier and does
remain a bit higher? What's your
ultimate hedge? Well, it's equities
because equities is the one asset class
that exposes you to uh nominal um you
know to nominal cash flows. It's a
nominally growing asset class. So if
indeed yes, we were to see in the next
12 18 months perhaps in the US in
particular inflation a little bit higher
again I I wouldn't be really throwing in
the towel because the counter to uh no
rate cuts or not as much not as many
rate cuts as markets have priced in
right now. The counter to that is a
continuously strong nominal growth world
which is really good for equities in
particular.
>> I love how much the idea of a bubble
seems to have triggered you this
morning. It seems like we're trying to
put our tinfoil hats out and you're
like, "This is ridiculous. How could
you?" I do wonder though, it goes to
this idea of people looking for havens,
looking for a ballast in their
portfolios, which has also kind of
triggered you to think about bonds in
that same kind of way, and we saw that
in your recent note. What have you found
in terms of what the new haven is and
how different it is than say five years
ago?
>> Yeah, look, I think um what is different
definitely is around the dollar. The
dollar probably is no longer that big
big safe haven. One of the key risks
that we are worried about in the second
half is perhaps a retightening of the
labor market because of immigration
flows going into reverse. Certainly
going the other way from where we were
in 2022 and 2023. And that of course
would lead uh perhaps this retightening
of labor market would lead to a
repricing of rate cut expectations on
the one hand, but it would also lead to
a negative impact on growth. So that
would be the worst of all worlds where
US growth would go down but we also have
a tighter labor market that constrains
the Fed in that environment you know the
dollar probably doesn't perform as well
because you are going fully into some
sort of stagflationary concerns what
performs well there it's still you know
things like gold it's still things like
the Swiss Frank those I think
particularly on the gold side where we
are really this is pretty much the the
only safe haven we are overweight at the
moment in our tactical uh asset
allocation views that's still very much
reigns supreme because you have these
continued geopolitical risks lurking in
the background. You've got perhaps those
stagflationary concerns uh also coming
back in the second half and then the
only one really hedging against that is
is gold and perhaps a little bit also
the Swissy.
>> Max Kentner of HSBC, thank you so much
as we do see gold on an absolute tear
this year at the expense possibly of the
dollar. We're not sure but there is a
sense that maybe uh we are seeing a
haven play there. So interesting and I'm
glad that you really uh keyed in on
Michael Hartnett's note. Also, I thought
it was interesting. It's predicated on
this idea that there is this global
easing cycle right after we got an ECB
meeting where they were pretty hawkish.
They at least tried to be uh and talked
about how they're in a pretty good place
almost taking off the prospect of
further rate cuts this year.
>> Yeah. Sounding a lot like uh Fed
officials saying that we are in a good
place. I think it just goes to show that
when there is the risk of inflation
volatility, it's really hard to continue
with the whole great moderation. That's
what it was predicated on. The fact that
maybe we got lucky that there weren't
supply shocks, that central banks were
independent. Those are the two very same
narratives that are being tested right
now. So, it begs the question, do you
need more premium for bonds? And if you
do need more premium in bond yields, can
equity stay where they are right now?
It's these big questions that I think
has a lot of people nervous to continue
riding on this wave of optimism.
>> We'll be getting into hard hats and
construction zones in just a minute.
Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
your bloomer brief with Yahira Anna and
Yahira. Hi, Lisa. We are staying on hard
hats. Actually, President Trump put on a
hard hat and tooured the renovations at
the Federal Reserve with Chair Powell.
And there was that tense moment when the
president claimed the price tag had
jumped from two and a half to over $3
billion. Following the tour, Trump said
there wasn't cause to fire Powell, but
reiterated his call for the Fed to cut
interest rates. Meanwhile, at least $1
billion worth of Nvidia's top AI chips
made it to made it into China in just
three months despite US export bans. The
Financial Times citing sales contracts,
company filings, and saying Chinese
distributors sold restricted processors
through a black market channel.
Washington has since reapproved sales of
Nvidia's H20 chip, which performed below
the restricted B200.
And LVMH sales fell in the second
quarter as demand slumped in Japan and
China. Revenue at its fashion division,
which includes Louis Vuitton and Dior,
tumbled 9%, which was worse than
analysts expected, while First Top
profit slipped 15%. Shares are down more
than 25% over the past year. That's your
Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yahara, up next.
Agree to disagree.
>> It looks like it's about 3.1 billion.
Went up a little bit or a lot. Uh, so
the 2.7 is now 3.1.
I'm not aware of that.
>> Yeah, it just came out.
>> Yeah, I haven't heard that from anybody
at the Fed.
>> Made for TV moment uh in the Federal
Reserve's new building. John Lieieber of
Eurasia Group joins us next. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
trying to eek out a fifth straight day
gains after four record closes. But each
of those just inching upwards as Danny
was talking about earlier. Just really
some knowledge in the markets. not doing
a lot today. Although we are seeing a
little bit of a pop in the Russell 2000
in the bond space just creeping a little
bit higher on the front end of the yield
curve and frankly this is a worldwide
phenomenon after yesterday's ECB meeting
heading into the Fed's confab next week
under surveillance this morning agree to
disagree.
>> We're just taking a look at what's
happening. You know, it's a it's a tough
construction job. It looks like it's
about 3.1 billion. It went up a little
bit or a lot. Uh, so the 2.7 is now 3.1.
>> I'm not aware of that.
>> Yeah, it just came out.
>> Yeah, I haven't heard that from anybody
at the Fed. You're including the Martin
renovation. You just added in a third
building is what that is. That's a third
building, but it's a building that's
being built.
>> No, it's been it was built 5 years ago.
>> It's part of the overall work,
>> but it's not new.
>> Well, I'd love him to lower interest
rates, but other than that other than
that, what can I tell you?
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
continued questioning the cost of the
central bank's renovation in a rather
awkward exchange with Fed Chair Powell.
Trump also reiterating his belief that
the Fed should lower interest rates.
Blue's Mike Shepard joins us now. Mike,
other than having sort of an awkward
marital spat over renovations. What did
we learn yesterday?
Well, we actually saw the president try
to lower the temperature a bit on this
question of whether he would or would
not proceed with trying to dismiss
Jerome Powell as Fed chair after the
tour. And despite that tense moment with
the Fed chief, he indicated look that
the building doesn't really rate quite
as what uh some in his administration
have considered to be a firing offense.
We even saw uh Jay Powell take issue
with the president's number there right
in front of the press. And that's not
usually the kind of challenge that
Donald Trump takes kindly to, but he
took it in stride and then afterward uh
again addressing reporters really made
clear that he just wanted one thing,
Lisa, and that is he simply wants
interest rates cut. And this has become
a central theme of his economic message.
In addition to tariffs, in addition to
tariff uh tax cuts, he wants to see
rates come down for the sake of home
buyers and businesses. and he tried to
make that call pretty clear yesterday
during this visit.
>> The whole flood the zone type of
approach where you throw a lot of things
into the same ball. Bloomberg's Mike
Shepard, thank you so much as always.
Joining us now, John Liieber of Eurasia
Group. John, the fact that we did see a
conflating of these two ideas, first of
all, taking issue with exactly what the
renovation costs were, but then just
lower interest rates. How unusual is
this? And why are markets still
continually shrugging off the sort of
unconventional, at least verbal
intervention with the central bank?
Yeah, it's definitely unusual. I don't
think we've ever seen anything quite
like this. I mean, it's pretty clear
that at least within the last few weeks,
Trump has wanted to fire Powell and is
taking the idea really, really
seriously. It's the only reason this
building is a controversy. It's the only
reason the OM sent the letter uh which
was accusing Powell of malfeasants,
which would have allowed Trump to fire
him for cause. But I think what we saw
yesterday, we can call it the Eckles
building truce because it's clear that,
you know, Trump's moving on from this
idea. I think that Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessett and others have really
prevailed on him that firing Powell
would be very bad for his presidency. He
tore the building. It's not doesn't look
like Versailles despite what he's been
told by some other folks. And I think
that this issue is largely going to go
to rest and markets are probably right
to ignore it for now.
>> Yeah. Uh really underscoring it's not
Versailles given just the location they
were talking and the hard hats. I don't
think you'd be wearing that in
Versailles. John, what does it mean as
to what we expect from President Trump
here? Do you truly believe he's moved on
from this topic or is this a president
that's going to continually try to
jawbone Powell?
>> No, he's not moving on. He thinks he
should have the power to control
interest rates. And I think that's one
of the big dangers next year after
Powell's replacement has been announced
is that the either you have a Fed chair
that's much more open to intervention
from the president or you have markets
that believe that the Fed chair is open
to intervention for the president from
the president. And I think that the key
date to watch right now is the next Fed
meeting on July 30th. If they don't cut
rates, then, you know, I think expect
this theme to come back up and Trump's
going to tell them that that he wants
them to lower rates again. But I just
don't think he's going to fire him. But
so I think this is more of a 2026 story.
It's more about what happens after
Powell. And for the next year or so,
we're going to continue to hear Trump
talk about this and you're going to
continue to hear markets correctly
ignore it. John, does that mean we're
already set up in a scenario that for
2026, whoever the Fed chair is, is that
there's already a loss of credibility
that we're already questioning the
political nature and swayability of who
comes in next after Powell?
>> Yeah. I I mean, a lot of the clients
that we speak with uh raise this concern
that that, you know, they think whoever
Trump ends up choosing is going to be
someone who's told him behind the scenes
that he's willing to do the stuff Trump
wants, which is cutting interest rates
at a time the data doesn't support it.
So, I think that's a credibility
challenge for the next Fed chair. It
means that they're going to have to take
additional steps in order to anchor
inflation expectations. This could mean
that they have to raise rates and that
could risk uh when they shouldn't when
they wouldn't otherwise. That could risk
uh Trump's eye in that situation. Or you
just have markets who don't believe that
the Fed chair is going to do what they
say they're going to do. So, this is a
huge problem for next year. One factor
that I think matters a lot is that
whoever the chair is is going to have to
find a majority on the board. So, it
makes it very much more difficult for
the president to put somebody in who's
purely pliable because rates are subject
to a a vote of the FOMC and that is
going to make it uh harder for a pure
Trump loyalist to get his or her will as
chair on the board.
>> I can just imagine an investor listening
to this conversation and saying, "You
guys are still worried about this
because we've moved on. We've stopped
looking at the potential uh conflict of
interest at the Federal Reserve. Yes,
this is an unconventional president, but
we're looking at the idea that we've got
tariff agreements, that we have the one
big beautiful bill, and frankly, we feel
pretty good to keep propping up equity
valuations. Have we gotten some
certainty even as there is this very
unconventional approach to the Federal
Reserve that largely the market is kind
of shrugging off?
>> Absolutely. I mean, I think that the
August 1 deadline is relevant because
we'll know where the tariff rates are
going to end up landing for most US
trading partners. It looks like the US
and China are headed towards a summit
later this year. And the only way that's
possible is if you get agreement around
where the Chinese tariffs are. And so I
think that a lot of the uncertainty that
was prevalent earlier in the year is
really being washed out of the system
right now as the world is getting used
to the United States having a roughly
15% average tariffs, which is a massive
increase from where they were at this
time last year. Yet the markets don't
seem all that bothered by it. So I do
think going forward that even with the
headwinds and the frictions of higher
tariffs, you have a lot more certainty
and that's probably good news going into
the rest of the year. The question
however is going to be when does the
economic data start showing inflation or
the effects of Trump's immigration
policy. We haven't really seen that yet.
It may not come but it does feel like if
you just look at this from the pure
policy perspective, there's another shoe
that could drop here.
>> How much are clients taking at face
value some of these deals? the idea that
these are the rates that are going to
stick.
>> I think for the most part these are seen
as as credible. I think that the Trump
administration's been very clear in its
messaging that it doesn't want to be
litigating uh tariffs in the second half
of the year. Scott Besson said over and
over again that he wants these deals to
be done by Labor Day. And I think that
even if there's some, you know, you
might see one of the challenges here, I
guess, is that the purchase agreements
may not come through. Trump might
retaliate with higher rates, but the
deals that are being agreed to are the
deals that they think are going to
stick. And I think that's probably
right.
>> John Lieieber of Eurasia Group, thank
you so much. This does seem to be what
people are focusing on much more than
concerns around the Fed because
evidently you say something enough and
the market just becomes numb.
>> Yeah. And you announce 15 baseline
tariffs instead of 10 and you hit
all-time highs. I think it might
underscore that August 1st maybe isn't
the big scary deadline for markets that
we once thought it would be. It might be
the big scary deadline though for
Volkswagen and for Puma and we'll be
talking about that in just a minute.
Coming up though, we'll be talking with
Jason Thomas of Carile ahead of more
Magnificent 7 earnings next week really
driving the optimism amid this AI capex
boom. Plus, Yahara Anend with your
morning movers as Intel falls on
turnaround concerns as they don't
promise the same kind of growth tied to
the foundry.
[Music]
Four straight days of record highs at
the close. Although each of these record
highs, just to give you a sense of the
incredible zest underneath it,
yesterday's record high was up 0.07
for the S&P 500. Meanwhile, if you take
a look across the board this morning,
not doing anything as it hasn't been for
quite a while. The Russell 2000 getting
a little heat up 210 of a percent. What
you can see in the bond space is
interesting, especially after yesterday.
At the front end, a bit higher, at the
long end, a bit higher as people price
in the idea that maybe central banks
globally will remain on hold. 2-year,
10-year, 30-year across the curve,
across the globe, inching ever higher
with 30-year German bond yields at the
highest levels since 2011. Three hours
away from the cash open. Here is your
morning movers with Yahara on it.
Yahhira, hi Lisa. Build it and they will
come is no longer the strategy over at
Intel. And take a look at shares. are
down 7.3% after its new CEO Lip Bhutan
said he was scrapping major factory
projects and called spending at the
company excessive as it tried to revive
its foundry business but investors
apparently not sold on this vision and
they also did not like that Intel guided
lower on margins and that it didn't give
a clear path when it came to competing
in AI. Next up we have shares of
Paramount. They are rising 1.7% after
the C FCC approved its merger with Sky
Dance in a deal mired in controversy
just a week ago. We were talking about
how Paramount cancelled Steven Colbear
show with some thinking that it did this
in order to get this deal over the
finish line. But whatever you think
about that, the deal is done. And Sherry
Redstone, whose family has run this
company for decades, will be stepping
down from the board upon its completion.
And David Ellison will become chairman
and CEO. That is some succession level
drama. And we end with Deckers. It had a
blowout quarter. Shares are up 13%. This
is the company behind Uggs and Hoca
sneakers. Sales jumped double digits for
both brands. But it's not all smooth
sailing from here because this is a shoe
maker. So of course it is heavily
impacted by tariffs. And while it was
mostly able to avoid that by
front-loading shipment shipments,
Stackers is warning that price hikes may
be coming as those costs start to catch
up to it. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yhierra, so
interesting to watch the retailers as
they adjust to the potential tariffs.
Honorator this morning, there is only
one story. It has hard hats and is made
for television. President Donald Trump
downplaying his feud with Fed Chair Jay
Powell after touring the central bank's
renovation project despite some moments
of tension.
It looks like it's about 3.1 billion.
Went up a little bit or a lot. Uh so the
2.7 is now 3.1.
>> I'm not aware of that.
>> Yeah, it just came out.
>> Yeah, I haven't heard that from anybody
at the Fed. You're including the Martin
renovation. You just added in a third
building is what that is. That's a third
building.
>> No, but it's it's a building that's
being built.
>> No, it's been it was built 5 years ago.
>> Well, I'd love him to lower interest
rates, but other than that, what can I
tell you? We're going to play this over
and over again today because it really
is quite something. And I've got to say,
Danny, it leaves me with this impression
that it did feel a bit like two uh
people arguing in a a sort of congenial
way about something that we all have
argued about, home projects, uh given
the fact that there tend to be some
issues that come up.
>> Well, I mean, kind of the hilariousness
of this was that the Fed worked so hard
to try to dispel the issues with the
building, putting out memos, changing
their website. Literally all it took was
for the two of them to get together, put
on their silly little hard hats, slap
each other on the back, and laugh. And
afterwards, you have Trump tweeting out,
"It is what it is. Our country can
handle the high cost." I thought another
little amusing detail was the Wall
Street Journal, and they're reporting
they got a tour from various Fed
officials of the building. Apparently,
there's an oval entryway, and before
Trump had come, they wrote on it the
Oval Office. They thought it'd be a
funny joke, but then they spray painted
over it because they were scared they
were going to anger Trump. This these
are federal officials who were so
nervous. And then you get this really
jokey attitude once they're both there.
>> Yeah. Let's see how uh nice that
attitude will be though next week if
they do not cut rates on Wednesday. That
will be the Fed meeting and we are
expecting uh them to hold rates steady
although with two potential descents.
Meanwhile, a real question of what the
outlook is going to be not just for US
companies but globally. Volkswagen
lowering its financial outlook for the
year citing the escalating cost of
President Donald Trump's tariffs. The
company's CFO telling us here at
Bloomberg, quote, "We need a good
compromise. It felt like the tone at
European companies a little different
than those in the US
>> and especially when you think about what
just happened in Japan with the trade
deal there with getting car tariffs
those sectoral tariff tariffs down to
15% for them. Toyota goes off to the
races. But of course, one of the big
differences is Toyota makes some $60
billion worth of cars in the US.
Volkswagen isn't doing this. this and I
thought Matt Miller had a really good
point earlier this morning that you
could say, hey, Porsche should start
opening a US factory and making cars
here, but no one wants to buy a Porsche
911 built in the US. The whole point of
them is that they're built, they're
luxury cars. You buy them in Stoutgart.
So, how much can Volkswagen really shift
over to the US anyway?
>> It feels like a very personal point from
Matt. That's all I can say.
>> None of us are buying 911.
>> Exactly. None of us are actually buying
911s or going to Stukgart to uh to view
the different models, although some of
us, I assume, are. Meanwhile, looking at
this story, and this is something Yahu
was just talking about. Intel CEO
failing to convince investors that the
company's turnaround plan is still on
track. The chipmaker reporting an update
revenue forecast, but adding the company
will cancel some factory projects and
take a more conservative approach to
spending. Those shares lower by 7.3%
in pre-market trading. And they also
talked about some serious job cuts.
Serious job cuts. Spending is going to
be reigned in really in opposition to
what we're hearing from all the other
big tech. And I know that this is a very
Intel specific story, but I wonder if
you can look at it and say, look, you
have all of these companies spending so
much in capital expenditures. We know
capex cycles are boom and bust. What if
more companies start going the way of
Intel? Are we now developing this really
fat set of distributions from the
spending that we're getting? And if more
companies need to cut back, does it hurt
that much more? Again, I know Intel has
its own problems, but could it suggest
something that might come down the road
for others? It also speaks to the
winners and the losers in the tech stack
and the idea that Intel possibly
delivered better than expected earnings
from bringing forward demand ahead of
tariffs but doesn't have a growth
strategy and frankly is still hinged on
the PC uh worlds that is undergoing a
lot of transformation and doesn't have a
sense of promise for the future and that
really goes to the question of how much
are people looking way beyond these
current earnings to what is your
forward-looking dream the dream of AI
the dream of agents the dream of
technology to back it up in terms of
energy and other infrastructure.
>> That's why I don't know is not a good
enough answer for a lot of these
companies. A chipmaker earlier in the
week said, "We don't know how much of
our sales were a pull forward. We have
100,000 customers. We don't know."
Markets didn't like that because they
want to know. They want to know that
what we're seeing now and I think across
the board isn't just that pull forward
and you have a plan in place. Let's stay
with this. The idea of capex and what
this means for some of the big tech
earnings. as we get more mag 7 earnings
next week and we are going to see
potentially if some of those AI
investments are paying off. Jason Thomas
of Carile writing the job displacement
productivity gains and agentic economy
expected to upend our world have yet to
materialize. The current AI related
capex already accounts for more than
onethird of the second quarter 2025 US
economic growth. Jason joins us now.
Jason always wonderful to speak with
you. Thank you for being with us. And to
me, this is the big question that so
many people have underestimated for
2025. How much are we actually seeing
that AI tailwind come into practical
effect versus still remain a promise?
>> Well, I think it's again it's it's
interesting because when you think of
AI, when you discuss AI, it's almost
exclusively about the future and and
what it means. And that I think
distracts from the present just how
important all this spending is. stacks,
servers, GPUs, physical construction,
uh, and and of course electricity
related energy needs related
applications and and this you have four
companies now that are intending to
spend over $300 billion this year about
six uh are spending over 400 billion.
This is went from something that is uh
market significant, stock market
significant to something that is now GDP
significant and also I think
underappreciated. It's also increasingly
significant for bond markets because you
know if we look a decade ago these large
companies they were largely virtual
companies. Prior to the pandemic this
class of businesses only about 20% of
their book value was property plant and
equipment. The mo most of it was really
just cash security holdings. Now
property plant equipment accounts for
over 70% of their book value. There's an
industrial feel to some of these
businesses as they ramp up their capital
spending and and those that huge
surpluses that they used to generate
that providing liquidity to the rest of
the economy is now being rolled into uh
to capital spending AI. So Jason, just
to sort of uh bleed through into the
market what you're saying, the
industrial revolution that so many
people say is taking place, are you
saying that is the physical world
sucking capital out of financial
markets, in particular the bond market,
leading to higher yields?
>> Exactly. Again, what's so interesting, I
think, is that these companies have
really exercised an option to change
strategy. In the past, it was typical
to, you know, generate a hundred billion
dollars of cash from operations,
reinvest maybe 12 to 15 billion, and
then that that free cash flow would, of
course, lead to a massive war chest on
the on the balance sheet, or it would
fund huge share repurchase programs or
special dividends. Today, that revenue
is being diverted to capex. And so this
raises really interesting questions such
as the cash generation potential. We saw
in in Alphabet's earnings uh a big
divergence between net income and free
cash flow. It also raises industrial era
questions about capacity utilization and
also what is the economic rate at which
this new capital depreciates. You know
is is there functional obsolescence when
you're investing at the frontier of new
technology? How quickly does it arrive?
So, so these are again very interesting
questions. But from the bond market
perspective, when you look at the
cumulative cash flow surplus of the
corporate sector this cycle, it's down
75%
from where it was a decade ago. So the
last cycle there's a question very large
deficits. Why was it so easy for the Fed
to fund itself? Well, of course QE is
the simple answer, but but I think be
behind that you also had again this this
enormous corporate savings glut. Some of
that was cyclical, the scars from the
GFC, but a lot of it was that most of
the growth in earnings and revenues were
attributed to again the these virtual
businesses, businesses that could grow
revenue without incremental hiring,
incremental investment, and and they've
changed strategy.
>> So Jason, it's some serious tailwinds
and changes. we're talking about. But as
you underscored, it's only a handful of
companies. It's only four, maybe six
companies, hyperscalers that are leading
this charge. Is there a concentration
risk in this that these trends are being
driven by a small cohort that for now
are being rewarded by markets for
spending? What happens if that changes?
>> Yes, of course, there's concentration
risk. There's concentration risk in the
stock market. there's concentration risk
in the economy again as as the as
capital spending and GDP become more
dependent on these continued outlays and
I think that that people talk about the
mag 7 of course and and it's this the
share I think you know 15% of global
stock market capitalization almost a
third of the S&P 500 market
capitalization but but I think that
what's more concerning to me at least is
that these are not a diversified set of
businesses operating in, you know,
completely different sectors with
completely different strategies. They're
all basically pursuing the same end goal
at the moment. There's there's some
variation, of course. Uh but but in
general, it it's not it's it's a
concentrated bet on the same AI future.
And you know, everyone has to hope uh
that ultimately it pays off because
again, it's not just of significance for
the stock market or investors in these
particular companies, but but again, it
has very significant spillovers on the
rest of the economy today as well. Well,
some of those spillovers, Jason, which
has been widely talked about is what it
does to this labor market. And there
it's unclear what's really showing up.
You see it in some of the earnings.
Service Now, the management platform
tool, the CEO there saying yesterday,
"We're slowing down the hiring and jobs
that are quite frankly soul crushing,"
which I think is maybe a nice way to
describe replacing people's jobs with
AI. Jason, is it showing up anywhere?
I think that that most of the change in
the labor market that we observed in
2025 was was related to tariffs. Just
just the the shock, the uncertainty. And
what I think what was so interesting
about that was CEOs really not panicking
uh after after April 2nd. I think there
was this intention to project a sense of
normaly to look at competitors and see
if there were any missteps if they could
take market share and part of that had
been yes perhaps slowing the pace of
hiring but it was just interesting when
we look through our portfolio that there
really not much of a reduction in open
but unfilled positions. Uh there really
wasn't the pullback that I think many
people expected. So, so the labor market
has held up reasonably well and and of
course on the other side of that you
have inflation uh that continues you
know if you look at core PCE over the
last 12 months still probably 2 and a
half 2.6%.
So you know it is this interesting
moment where I think that inflation's a
bit stickier. I mean, of course, some
people look at the last 8 to 10 weeks
and tell me inflation is only up by 1%
annualized rate, but you know, of
course, there's not that many prices in
our economy uh that reset that
regularly, you know, whether they're
fixed or contractual term or or, you
know, just other frictions. So, you
know, it's it's a 12-month uh in
inflation uh benchmark and and this it's
still elevated. So, you know, next week
I think is is a time when when the Fed
is very reasonably uh going to uh to
keep uh rates steady.
>> Jason, you're making an argument for why
stocks can outperform and bonds cannot.
The idea that the promise of the future
and all of this investment, the
profitability is much more attractive
than credit markets that people say or I
would say government bond markets.
Credit markets might be slightly
different. Is that accurate? Is that
kind of the way you think of the world
right now?
There is of course the convex upside of
earnings of the potential of AI and that
is what equity markets are ultimately
betting on whe whether that materializes
or not is a separate question but there
is that upside there and and I think
also just the potential for inflation
when when you have businesses that can
increase prices proportional to the
overall increase in the price level that
also provides an inflation hedge when
when you're investing in in businesses
uh you know the the fixed income markets
that's a different story right now if
you look at the size of the US fiscal
deficit it's consuming about 40%
of the savings of the private sector
that is the uh savings of the household
sector plus the free cash flow of the
corporate sector this is up uh about 50%
from from where it was in the past cycle
the 2009 to to 2019 so this is just
enormous funding needs and I think that
that people have to be you know
concerned about the the potential to be
inflated away. Uh the eventually the
Treasury may try to term out uh more of
its debt issuance and and what is the
market clearing price when the share of
federal funding actually moves in the
direction of 10year notes, 30-year
bonds. So, so I think certainly a lot of
questions there and I think the other
big concern
bonds historically have hedged equity
market risk. That was the experience
really since 2000. What we've seen since
the Fed started hiking rates in 2002 is
that stock and bond returns have been
positively correlated. So, so those
those Treasury holdings that you thought
were protecting you that would rise
predictably when stocks sell off are
actually selling off at the same time
and and we saw that of course in April
uh which many people attribute to the
decision to suspend the initial
liberation day tariff schedule.
>> Jason Thomas of Carlilele, thank you so
much. A lot to think about and really uh
insightful comments there. We really
appreciate you joining us right now.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. Here are your Bloomberg brief
stories with Yahara Anandhara.
>> Hi Lisa. Israel and the US are
withdrawing teams from ceasefire
negotiations with Hamas, citing the
group's unwillingness to agree to terms.
President Trump's envoy Steve Wickoff
said Hamas showed a lack of desire to
end the war. Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu said any deal must
include Hamas surrendering and giving up
control of Gaza. Sticking with the
Middle East, f French President Emanuel
Mcronone says France will officially
officially recognize a Palestinian
state, becoming the first G7 nation to
do so. Mcronone says France remains
committed to quote just and durable
peace while calling for an urgent
ceasefire. US Secretary of State states
Marco Rubio criticized the move stating
in a post that it sets back peace.
And shares of Puma are plunging 17.6% in
German trading. The company slashed its
profit forecast in the face of weak
demand for its sports and exercise gear
amid growing concerns about the impact
of US tariffs. This is the third major
route this year for the company. Shares
are down over 50% so far this year. Dr.
Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Up next, bumpy
airline earnings.
>> Business demand dropped off at the start
of the year. That seems like it's
bounced back to what we were expecting
it to be. Premium and, you know,
higherend leisure sort of stayed
consistent throughout it. The biggest
impact for the consumer was in low-end
leisure.
>> Tom Fitzgerald of TD Cowan joining us
next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Stocks looking for direction ahead of a
huge week. A lot of people parsing
through myriad earnings we've gotten
particularly from the travel and leisure
sector under surveillance this morning.
Bumpy airline earnings.
>> Business demand dropped off at the start
of the year. That seems like it's
bounced back to what we were expecting
it to be. premium and you know higherend
leisure sort of stayed consistent
throughout. It never really dropped off
and the biggest impact for the consumer
was in low-end leisure and that's come
back some in July but not as much.
>> Here's the latest mixed results from
airlines American and Southwest cutting
their outlooks for the full year as
Delta and United reinstate their fullear
guidance. Joining us now is Tom
Fitzgerald of TD Cowan. Tom, what's your
takeaway after the earnings we've gotten
so far about the tale of two halves when
it comes to airlines?
>> I think we're seeing some green shoots
among airlines that have diverse
revenues and airlines that are more
exposed to premium travel, corporate
travel, and long haul international.
Even with American, they did have much
better results than Southwest reported
yesterday. And I think it's because of
um exposure to revenue streams like
that. And I think I don't think that
airlines um whether it's Southwest or
the other lowcost carriers that have yet
to report, I don't think they're out of
the woods yet, so to speak, in terms of
uh the volatility we've seen in 2025.
>> Tom, what do you do with something like
American when they give you an estimate
going forward for earnings that's as low
as a loss of 20 cents or as high as 80
cents a share? What do you do with a
Gulf like that?
>> Yeah, it is a wide range. Um but it's
the airline industry. It wasn't, you
know, I think part of the problem was
sellside estimates were broadly too
high. I mean, a lot of what they guided
was pretty close to where our numbers
were. Um, so I don't know if it's as
maybe the outlook isn't as bad as the
gap between what was guided and um what
people saw on their Bloomberger fact
sets yesterday.
>> Well, still you noted that the ones that
are doing better have their premium
travel and we've seen airlines invest
more into premium travel, expand the
seating there, for example. But it's an
industry that sometimes is bad at
looking beyond the moment. We learned
that in the bounce back from COVID when
they were unprepared for it. Tom, what
is the risk that airlines are investing
into premium as we might be hitting a
precipice where consumers start to pull
back on spending?
>> Um, that's definitely a risk for sure. I
think there's also a chance that maybe
we see some reaceleration at the um or
at least among higher income cohorts
whether it's um you know the
reconciliation bill that was passed uh
recently or you know there's potential
for Fed cuts in 2026 or even the second
half of this year that's positive for
risk assets um you know that remember
back in April there was concern about
the you know with the stock market
having fallen so much that you'd see
this negative wealth effect and that
would flow through into premium trap um
premium traffic demand. So I think you
could see the reverse and see a positive
flywheel effect from here.
>> Tom, how much do we see the airlines
that cater to wealthier individuals
doing better and that's just going to be
the path of travel going forward?
>> I think so. And I think if you look at
their dominant share in positions like
or cities like New York or or Los
Angeles, you know, it's not like these
are easy markets to get in and out of
even though the assets, you know, the
planes are mobile. Um, you know, getting
into the right markets and having the
right fleet to to service the ideal
demand. You know, that takes years in
advance and it's like turning an
aircraft carrier. United didn't get here
overnight.
>> Tom Fitzgerald of TD Cowan, thank you so
much for your time. I've got to say, I I
I honestly, Danny, see some of these
airlines and they're like, "Look at our
premium offerings. It's amazing. You
have seats that massage you while they
go back and then paint your nails and
then don't look at the back of the cab
because you know what? Whatever. Who
cares?" That seems to be the
>> But they've got us all hooked on, I
guess, the the free manicures or
whatever. So now when people travel,
they're like, "I need to pay up for it.
I experienced the good life and I'm not
going back." Well, but it's just so
interesting because you can tell a
different story about the consumer if
you look at Delta or if you look at
Southwest. Delta totally solid coming
back, business traveler coming back.
People still looking for that uh front
first class type of seat. But if you
take a look at Southwest, it paints a
very different picture of the American
consumer. It does, but I have to say it
feels like it is an industry that is so
sensitive to consumers to the point
where Delta talked about using AI in its
pricing and you've got all these
airlines pushing back. American Air, the
executives came out saying, "This is
going to erode customer trust. It's a
bait and switch if you use AI to do
pricing." I mean, they were already
doing dynamic pricing. I'm not sure how
much it changes things, but you just get
this sense that they are being so
careful if it is a consumer being more
picky now. Yeah, I do want AI to give me
therapy during travel and I think that
they're working on that. Coming up next,
Alicia Lavine of BNY Wealth, Krishna
Guha of Evercorp, Francisco Blanch of
Bank of America, and Chenza of Red Fin.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
We have yet to see the actual effect of
tariffs.
>> 15% is the new 10%. 10% is the new 0%.
>> It's still possible to believe that
these tariff rates are still only going
to be temporary. markets have correctly
assessed the tariff situation as benign
at the end of the day.
>> The bigger picture I think is the
market's coming around to is less about
the tariff and it's more about how this
the new era of globalization comes to
fruition.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
an Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Heading into a massive
week of earnings, 38% of the S&P 500
stocks, inching up to new record highs
for four straight consecutive sessions
and a big Fed rate decision with key
economic data ahead. John and Anorie are
off today. But I am so happy to say
Danny Burgerer is alongside me today.
And Danny, it seems like people are
looking past the noise with the Fed. As
much as the hard hats are interesting,
they're looking past the noise with
tariffs and looking straight to
corporate America. That is ascendant.
82% of the companies we've heard so far
have beat on earnings expectations.
Yeah, a lot has been said about the bar
being low, but in some ways the bar
isn't low. It's a stock at all-time
highs. And we look at that and we get
confidence. The confidence maybe just
slightly kneecap by the fact it's just
inching up higher. 22 sessions so far
without a gain or loss of more than 1%.
That is the longest stretch since
October of last year. So next week we've
got three parts. We have the earnings
part with Magnificent 7 coming out. A
massive slate to just uh finish up what
we heard from this week. We have the Fed
decision on Wednesday. Watch Truth
Social for uh President Donald Trump and
his response to what likely will be a
hold. And then we've got economic data.
What are you watching most closely? I
want to see if this market reacts to
economic data cuz it's not reacting to
trade disputes. It's reacting positively
to earnings. That story seems to be
continuing on. But if we start to see
cracks, if we start to see signs that
things like tariffs and lack of
confidence is finally starting to hit,
is that going to be the thing that jolts
this market awake, that gets us to move
up or down more than 1%? Cuz at the
moment, things like an August 1st trade
deadline really are not registering. In
some ways, people are looking more at
the corporate earnings for some sort of
sign of how uh the consumer is managing
through some of these tariffs. And I
find it fascinating to see an increasing
divergence between what we see in Europe
with the likes of Volkswagen and Puma
versus what we see in the United States
with the likes of Alphabed as well as a
host of other even retailers coming out
with relative strength. Yeah, a lot of
strength despite the fact people thought
that maybe some consumers would start to
pull back. But the unevenness as we're
just talking about even is within
industries. You see airlines some doing
better than others. within the food and
beverage uh space. You see Chipotle
doing poorly, but then you see Dominoes
doing well. It's a lot of halves and
have nots right now. And it's a picture
that's increasingly complicated that
hopefully we'll get some sort of signal
from as the next week progresses on.
>> Did you get the free burritos?
>> I didn't get the free burritos. I heard
that they had free burritos. Free roast
chicken or completely missed out on
that. They didn't really
>> It tastes better when it's free. So, I'm
upset I missed out on that.
>> Well, I think a lot of people did.
That's part of the problem. Right now,
you're seeing markets fluctuate. uh
although maybe going to a head toward a
fifth straight record close. We are
seeing the S&P futures gain about a
tenth of a percent. Uh meanwhile, you do
see yields higher across the world as
central bankers maybe aren't going to
cut rates as much as maybe President
Trump would like. Uh and you are seeing
a little bit of dollar strength
following better than expected data
yesterday coming out of the jobs market.
Coming up this hour, Alicia Lavine of
BNY Wealth following yet another record
high. Krishna Guha of Evercor as
President Trump visits the Fed with a
hard hat and Chenzauo of Red Fin on the
softening US housing market. We begin
this hour with stocks on a 4-day winning
streak. Alicia Lavine of BNY Wealth
writing, "The pain trade is higher as
the market shrugs off lingering tail
risks on monetary policy and the labor
market." Alicia, I am so pleased to say
joins us now. Alicia, great to see you
as always. the pain trade higher despite
the fact that they're the likes of
Michael Hartin of Bank of America
worrying about bubbles.
>> Yeah. No, look, I think it's true. I
mean, it's not hard to go into a room of
economists or bond traders who are
extremely negative and yet at the same
time we see markets marching higher. And
I think that's because, you know, if you
think about let's let's go to the way
back machine of April 2nd to April 8th.
The worst case scenario was pretty much
priced in at over three trading days. we
were down almost 20% which essentially
is telling you a recession is very close
to happening and to your point the
market has pretty much gone to sleep on
the tariffs whether it's 10% or 15% I
think we have going to have to revisit
that one day but for now we're in a
place where whatever happens with the
tariffs whether it's August 1st or not
there's a lot of you know the sky is
falling but the market's not seeing it
this way and ultimately the resilience
of the US corporate ate sector which
we're not going to call it American
exceptionalism. We will call it American
dominance um if you think about what's
going on in the European earnings this
morning um is is just showing you that
the earnings are coming through. So what
do we see? earnings came down
dramatically um April, May, and even to
June for 2025, 2026. And then in the
last month, we've seen a stabilization
and a tick upward. And once those
earnings expectations start ticking
upward, it pulls the market higher. And
this because in the end, a price on the
S&P is a multiple times earnings. We've
done the multiple part. We went from 18
times to 22 times forward earnings as
earnings fell. And now we're going to
get higher earnings going into 26. Is it
American exceptionalism or is it
American dominance or is it tech
dominance? And that's why you're seeing
the sort of division between the halves
and the have nots even within the United
States uh and the corporate world with
those who are actually implementing true
technology uh solutions versus those
that are a bit behind. So I'd say it it
is about tech and I think it's something
to keep an eye on the the question of
whether you know the capex spend so
Google spending another10 billion on
capex
etc. whether that has goes into earnings
and roe right and that's the big
question out there I think for the
market that question must be answered in
the positive otherwise there is risk in
the S&P here because if you do
communication services tech and let's
even say financials you're at 53% of the
S&P those are growth those are highly
growth a very friendly market for
financials as well so yes it is about
tech but we can't ignore We can't say
well it's all about tech so it doesn't
matter. I mean it does matter right and
that's what's been driving the markets
really for the last decade the last 15
years is that kind of dominance. The
other parts of the world when you look
at other markets you just don't have the
same exposure to technology and as a
result you're in a tech moment. It's the
same trade as it was before COVID. It's
the same trade as it was after COVID. We
had a little pause but it's the
dominance of these companies. The free
cash flow is what's driving the
earnings. Well, one of the interesting
things for the tech and Jason Thomas of
Carile was on with Lisa and me moments
ago basically saying that these
companies have changed. They're not
asset light anymore. They're almost
industrial players with the amount that
they're spending. Just that very fact,
does it mean we need to value these
companies different? Cuz part of their
appeal had been that they were very
asset light and maybe less exposed to
things like rates.
>> It's actually a really interesting
question. I think it's an interesting
way of of framing it. Um, I don't think
you're going to see that yet, but I
think what you will probably see is uh
the manufacturing PMI ticking upward as
the investment in grid and the
investment in energy power starts
kicking in because some of this capex is
going towards that as well in order to
sustain the output which is AI and
juicing you know the rest of their
businesses. So, it's an interesting way
of looking at it. I think that this is
going to also help the industrial
economy. And don't forget the the mar
the the multiples are lower than where
they were. You know, for most of these
companies, the multiples multiples are
actually lower today than they were in
January, particularly for a Google. What
does that mean for 2026 if you put that
headwind together with the one big
beautiful bill that gives tax benefits,
but also the headwind for tariffs? Are
the former enough to outweigh that to
produce more growth?
>> So, the number number-wise it is, right?
And that's why actually I think it's
going to be hard for a next
administration to take the tariffs off
and something we actually all have to
think about when we do our long-term
views and our capital market assumptions
going forward because there is a lot of
spend there. I think the excitement over
some of the immediate expensing and the
way capex is treated in the tax bill was
not spoken about by corporate America um
because they needed the the bill passed
and didn't want to create a political
football if you know what I mean. But I
think the results are actually very
clear and I think you're going to see a
boom in some on the industrial side as
it's also linked to energy power and
growing out the grid. So you're going to
have manufacturing and you're going to
have grid. That's all industrial
cyclicals are outperforming now. So,
it's actually really interesting.
>> This is way too positive. I'm putting on
my tinfoil hat and going under the under
the uh table and going back to what
Michael Hartnett said and reading it
over. Oh my goodness, this is a bubble
and this is going to be on the heels of
fiscal larger. The idea of governments
pulling back on regulation and you have
the monetary pressure on the likes of
Fed chair J Pals coming on and you know
going through the renovations and and
having a marital dispute. bigger retail,
bigger liquidity, bigger volatility,
bigger bubble from Michael Hartnett. Why
do you reject that?
>> It's not that I I reject it. I think
that the there's enough resilience out
there to get through it. The risks are
real. I think the yield risk is very
real. Um I think the issue of how uh
clients and investors find protection in
their portfolio is very real. That's a
very real conversation that we're
having. How do we hedge the risk with,
you know, with the bonds and where do we
go in in the curve here in order to do
that? That's very real. Um I think the
conversations are are not positive for
the bond market. The current
conversations that we're having, that's
very real as well. I think the spending
is difficult. Like we we've sat here and
talked about it. The deficit and the
debt um and the inability of Washington
to deal with it is a very real thing. As
an investor though, it comes back to the
same problem with what do I do with the
tenure, right? It comes back to the term
premium and we're frightened of it and
where do we invest? So the conversations
about the macro all come back to the
investing problem, right? And h and and
what do you how do you build out a
portfolio with that and that's the task
that that we face like how do we do that
in a world where we know there's risk in
inflation and we know that there's risk
in bonds. This is a fascinating
discussion. Max Kentner really touched
on this earlier this morning from HSBC
saying that they've found that gold is
probably the best hedge maybe the euro
to some degree but not necessarily going
to those staple bonds. I just wonder if
increasingly and what I'm hearing from
so many different investors is that
stocks are safer bet than a lot of
government bonds right now because of
that prospect for growth particularly if
they're hedged uh to technological
advancement and bonds aren't going to
protect you because the risks are just
utterly different this time around. So I
we think the risks are there but we
think there's value actually in the
belly of the curve the five to seven
years. So that's where we would go. I
think the traditional go out to 10
that's a different conversation and and
our clients are actually very
sophisticated and understand this
because they have businesses in the real
economy and they understand borrowing
and what it means. So we do that we you
know we do think commodities are a good
hedge here as well alternatives as well.
I mean this is where alternatives come
into the portfolio as a way
non-correlated to stocks and bonds to
hedge some of those issues out there.
Um, in the end, you know, when the
entire world and and Bloomberg talks
about hashtagliz moment, it's probably
not going to happen because it's there,
but it doesn't mean it's gone forever.
And I think that some of some of the
issues out there are clearly lurking.
So, we have to be aware of that, right?
We have to be aware of that. I think we
also have to be aware that the lower um
cortile of the income scale has been
suffering with higher rates. That's very
true. I think that's why you see the
political pressure coming on. Um, these
are people who live short, right? They
they they they borrow short. Um, and so
they pay rent, they don't own homes,
they don't have the benefits of
financial assets. So that's something to
be aware of as well. I mean, that is a
risk, too.
>> Alicia Lavine, always a pleasure having
you on the show. Thank you so much for
being with us. Alicia Lavine of BNY
Wealth here this morning. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomber brief with Yahara. Tiara.
>> Hi, Lisa. We start with the check on
Intel shares. are down 8% in the
pre-market as investors react to
comments from CEO Lip Bhutan who sparked
concerns that he was more focused on
cost cutting than restoring the
chipmaker's technological edge. As for
the scorecard, SK second quarter
earnings missed analyst estimates, but
they did give an upbeat third quarter
sales forecast.
Meanwhile, Paramount shares are rising 1
and a half% in the pre-market after the
FCC approved its merger with Skyance.
The decision ends a yearong yearslong
saga that included settling a lawsuit
with President Trump as well as
concessions on diversity initiatives and
news judgment.
And pro- wrestling legend Hulk Hogan
died yesterday following a series of
medical issues. Hogan, whose real name
was Terry Bolia, began his wrestling
career in Florida in the 1970s and
became a mega star in the 80s with the
rise of the WWE Federation. He went on
to star in the reality show Hogan Knows
Best in 2005 with his wife and two kids.
Hogan was 71. That's your Bloomberg
brief. Lisa, thank you so much. Yahra,
up next, agree to disagree.
>> It looks like it's about 3.1 billion. It
went up a little bit or a lot. Uh so the
2.7 is now 3.1.
>> I'm not aware of that.
>> Yeah, it just came out.
>> Yeah, I haven't heard that from anybody
at the Fed. Krishna of Evercor joining
us next. This is Bloomberg surveillance.
[Music]
Futures building on four straight days
of gains. S&P futures marginally higher
this morning up a tenth of a percent.
NASDAQ futures were lower just
fluctuating here in Russell 2000 up to
ten of a percent that optimism is being
baked into bond markets as well. Yields
higher as people ratchet back
expectations for how much central
bankers are going to have to cut rates
ahead under surveillance this morning
agree to disagree.
>> We're just taking a look at what's
happening. You know, it's a it's a tough
construction job. It looks like it's
about 3.1 billion. went up a little bit
or a lot. Uh, so the 2.7 is now 3.1.
>> I'm not aware of that.
>> Yeah, it just came out.
>> Yeah, I haven't heard that from anybody
that's including the Martin renovation.
You just added in a third building is
what that is. That's a third building.
>> No, but it's a building that's being
built.
>> No, it's been it was built 5 years ago.
>> It's part of the overall.
>> Well, I'd love him to lower interest
rates, but other than that,
>> other than that, what can I tell you?
>> Here's the latest. President Donald
Trump and Federal Reserve Chair Jay
Powell disagreeing over the cost of the
central bank's renovations. Trump
continuing his call for lower interest
rates ahead of the Fed's meeting next
week. Bloomer's Mike Shepard joins us
now. Shep, how much are we seeing uh the
sea change actually shift in the White
House to seeing Jay Powell as something
of an asset, a punching bag if you will,
ahead of what might be a volatile fall.
Well, it certainly is a sea change,
Lisa, from when the president first
appointed Jay Powell to the job all the
way back in 2017. And he really hailed
him as somebody who would be an
excellent steward of the economy. Of
course, that message has changed and
evolved. Even during his first term as
president, Donald Trump began
questioning whether he had made the
right choice, uh expressing misgivings
over what he saw as Powell's uh
reluctance to cut interest rates at the
time. That tune has not really changed
from Donald Trump even in his second
term. And what we've seen the president
do is escalate that message publicly and
in so many different fronts, too. This
is part of his strategy of flooding the
zone. Not only has he visited the Fed
and and really called the Fed chair out
over interest rate policy, he's
challenged the Fed chair over uh mundane
matters like the renovation project on
the Fed's headquarters, alleging that it
is rife with cost overruns and that and
some of his allies and the president
himself have wondered whether maybe that
could be cause for removing him. It's
come amid this call for the by the
president for Powell and the central
bank to cut interest rates. They're not
expected to do so at the meeting coming
up next week, but before years end, we
may see two cuts by the central bank
when it comes to its benchmark lending
rate. And Trump's pressure campaign
works for the president on a couple of
different levels. One, once the Fed
actually acts and reduces interest
rates, it gives him room to claim
victory for doing so, for pressuring the
Fed into acting. Two, it also sets the
Fed up potentially to become a
scapegoat. Should Trump's tariffs and uh
debtinducing tax cut law actually
inflict some harm in the economy, the
Fed could be set as set up perhaps as
the fall guy in this case. And then
third, it actually sends a message to
whoever whoever succeeds Jerome Powell
as Feder. Remember, his term expires uh
in May of next year. And the person who
succeeds Powell in that job will have
one mission. Uh if you take it from the
president's word himself, it will be to
cut baby cut when it comes to interest
rates. Lisa
>> Mike Shepard of Bloomberg, thank you so
much as always. Joining us now to
continue the conversation is Krishna
Kuha of Evercore. Krishna, how much does
this really complicate the decision on
Wednesday for the Federal Reserve and
how they message it considering that
there'll be a real-time commentary
coming from Truth Social?
Well, it certainly doesn't make their
life easier. I think we already know
that uh Waller and Bowman, both of whom
were appointed by President Trump in his
first term, are likely to descent uh
next week in favor of an immediate rate
cut. That's not going to have any effect
at all on what the Fed actually does.
They will, of course, not cut rates next
week. Um but it's a sign of the
pressures uh on the FOMC. I think the
question really is of course around the
September meeting at the end of the
summer. Uh will the Fed cut or not cut
at that meeting? I think Trump is trying
to build pressure uh to try to make sure
that they do move ahead with a cut then.
I think that is very likely pencled in
as the base case plan, but it is in
Pal's mind data dependent depending on
what they learn over the summer.
>> Krishna, it begs the question, if the
next Fed chair that's appointed is
someone who leans much more dovish that
wants to cut rates as Trump wants to cut
rates, does it matter if that's already
the direction of travel?
Well, sure it matters because, you know,
the question is not simply is the Fed
cutting rates, but by how much? And is
that cutting proportionate, reasonable,
uh, relative to what we're learning
about the condition of the economy? If
it is, market's going to be just fine
with that. But if it looks like the next
Fed chair is cutting a lot more
aggressively than economic conditions
warrant, then you're in trouble. That's
when you'd see inflation expectations
moving up. That's when you'd see uh
yields moving higher, the yield curve
steepening. All things, by the way, that
I don't think the president actually
wants to see,
>> right? So, firing Powell or trying to
replace him with someone hyperdish would
be counter to what this White House
wants. Krishna, there are other methods
though to change the makeup or at least
change what the Fed does. In the 70s, we
saw this a mandate to include a dual
mandate to focus on inflation alongside
the labor market. This is a Congress
that has been pushing Trump's bills
through. Is this a risk? Could they
could they relook at the Fed and try to
make them and reshape them in a more
populist image?
>> So, I don't think we should rule
anything out right now. Up to this point
though uh the congress specifically the
senate has taken quite a sober and
traditional approach to the fed. You
have not seen uh you know uh senate
majorities uh you know trying to censure
power or do anything else uh to
undermine fed independence. In fact
quite the opposite. You've seen a number
of Republican as well as Democratic
senators emphasizing that an independent
Fed uh is in the national interest. And
what I would say is if there were to be
any reform of the Fed's mandate, the
traditional Republican line is that you
should get rid of the labor side, focus
only on inflation. But that's exactly
the opposite of what the president wants
right now. Krishna, does the president
have a point though when it comes to
lowering interest rates to benefit lower
income individuals in particular? And
maybe this isn't something that the
president has expressed, but a number of
investors have, which is that the lower
income cohort is struggling. They're the
ones that tend to borrow short when it
comes to credit card bills, when it
comes to auto loans, and they're less uh
sort of benefited by the other aspects
of the economy that are doing really
well. What's your argument against that?
So I think it is a very fair uh
observation and to the extent that
that's what's motivating the president,
you know, I would very much respect that
concern for lowincome folks. But here's
the problem. The Fed sets one interest
rate for the economy. It doesn't get to
pick an interest rate for low-income
people and an interest rate for
high-income people. An interest rate for
Nvidia and an interest rate for the mom
and pop store. It has to pick one
interest rate that in aggregate balances
supply and demand in the economy, keeps
the economy in a position where
underlying inflation is going to settle
at 2% when the tariff shock is over. The
labor market will stay in balance. It is
always and everywhere the case that the
interest rate that the Fed is
maintaining will be a bit too high for
some people, a bit too low for others.
But the question is, is it the right one
for the economy as a whole because they
only get to pick one rate.
>> Krishna Guha of Evercore, thank you so
much. Uh very much looking forward to
the next time you come on. It's a really
compelling point, Danny. This is
something that a lot of people have
pointed to. How do you create a rate
structure for an economy that's
increasingly bifurcated?
>> It's a problem that we've been grappling
with for some time and it's the reason
why people are talking about cuts. That
sure on a headline level, the labor
market looks okay, but underneath the
surface, there are real issues. The
problem is is that while that
conversation is happening, stocks are at
an all-time high. Corporate America is
doing really well, and elsewhere the
data is holding up. So, it is this
dichotomy that makes you feel kind of
insane talking about cuts right now.
>> Well, and it's not exactly as if the
president is making this argument when
he's wearing hard hats talking about
renovation costs and then saying, you
know, what you really could do for me is
just lower interest rates. It doesn't
feel like it's the same kind of cohesive
economic argument. No, it certainly
doesn't, but it makes for a really great
meme that I'm looking forward to it
living on very long in many different
forms.
>> All I can say is that President Trump is
the ultimate producer. He creates
incredible made for TV moments. Coming
up, Yhierra Anand with your morning
movers as meme stocks Mania pushes
American Eagle shares higher across the
board, accounting for a greater and
greater proportion of overall trading
volume, even though they comprise just a
tiny part of the overall market cap.
[Music]
looking for a fifth straight day of
gains after four consecutive record
highs at the close for US equity
markets. Continuing that feeling uh
right now with futures, S&P futures up
about a tenth of a percent, Russell 2000
futures up two ten of a percent and bond
yields creeping just a touch higher two
hours away from the cash open. Here is
your morning movers with your endra. Hi
Lisa. We start with American Eagle
shares. There are up 1.3% as it becomes
the latest name to catch some meme stock
momentum. But this time there's a real
catalyst. The company just launched a
new campaign with the ultra popular
actress Sydney Sweeney and it has
traders on Wall Street bets buzzing
especially because it has sh high short
interest which makes it a prime target
for these traders. Next up we have
Corsera. Those shares are soaring up
nearly 30% now after a strong quarter.
The company blew past revenue estimates
in the second quarter and that's thanks
to booming demand for its for its
courses around AI. Not just for people
like you and me who want to learn to
code and learn AI, but also from
enterprise customers who want to upskill
their labor force. And take a look at
Mattel shares. They are rising now 3%
but that is after plunging yesterday on
bad results. The company behind Barbie
saw sales in its dolls category fall
19%. I I guess people really took
seriously President Trump's comments
that girls just need one doll instead of
many. Anyway, Mattel also gave a
cautious outlook just showing you how
investors are quick to punish companies
that don't guide well. But as I said, a
little bit of a give back this morning.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yah. Right now on our
radar this morning, President Trump
downplaying his feud with Fed Chair Jay
Powell after touring the central bank's
renovation project despite some moments
of tension.
>> It looks like it's about 3.1 billion. It
went up a little bit or a lot. Uh so the
2.7 is now 3.1.
>> I'm not aware of the
>> Yeah, it just came out.
>> Yeah, I haven't heard that from anybody
at the Fed. You're including the Martin
renovation. You just added in a third
building is what that is. That's a third
building.
>> No, but it's it's a building that's
being built.
>> No, no, it's been it was built 5 years
ago.
>> Well, I'd love him to lower interest
rates, but other than that, other than
that, what can I tell you?
>> It just really doesn't get old, Danny,
each time we watch it. It is so
excellent. I'm sorry. It is really
hilarious. I know we're talking about
really serious and threatening things
like Fed Independence, but you know what
it kind of reminds me of? It's like when
Trump was talking about that he was
going to go toward Fort Knox and do an
audit and make sure all the gold is
there. There was so much noise about
that and then it kind of just petered
off. I wonder if this is going to be the
same thing where he gets all this noise
about auditing the Fed building. He goes
face to face. They kind of have their
marital spat. They figure it out and
then he moves on. He even put on Truth
Social shortly afterwards that it is
what it is and we can afford it. It's
clear that Powell is his punching bag.
He's been able to maintain him and so
maybe we kind of move on just to the
occasional tweet, please lower interest
rates. I wish that they had toured Fort
Knox and shown us all of the gold there
because that was actually something I
was kind of interested in just on an
intellectual level. I do think it does
have more import though and the idea
that next week this does heighten some
of the attention to the Fed meeting on
Wednesday when we will be getting a live
blog I'm sure from the president and
they are likely to hold rates steady not
do what the president wants. Well, also
part of the problem is is that now even
regardless of who becomes the Fed chair
in 2026, the credibility is already
being questioned before we even know who
it is. So regardless of that person, are
we going to judge in inflation
expectations that should be higher? Cuz
we think it's someone who's going to
come in and cut again regardless of who
it is. People's minds are spinning and
so they are just tuning this out.
They're not tuning this out. The FCC
approving Paramount's merger with Sky
Dance. The chairman saying Sky Dance
vowed to ensure that the new company's
programming includes diverse viewpoints
from across the political and
ideological spectrum. A real question
here about whether this was related to
some of the recent programming changes
and what this means going forward uh for
both of these companies and what it
means for corporate America. Quite
frankly, when it comes to things like
M&A, Brendan Carr, the FCC chair, very
clearly said that the reason that this
was approved is because CBS and Sky
Dance made commitments that they would
have unbiased journalism and wouldn't
establish DEI practices. This is a
corporate America that hated Biden
policies that made it so difficult to
get deals done. So, there's ideological
inconsistencies. It was an
administration that came in and promised
a more light regulatory touch. This
isn't it if you're still demanding
things from companies.
>> Yeah, and you really rais a great point.
And at what point are ideological
questions and demands sort of the
necessity that companies have to engage
with in order to get some of these deals
approved? Meanwhile, meme stock mania
making a comeback. Traders targeting
American Eagle as we were hearing from
Yahra after the retailer announced a new
campaign headlined by actress Sydney
Sweeney. Shares of Open Door, GoPro,
Crispy Cream, and Kohl's also seeing a
surge this week. All I can say is that
pair of jeans and a picture of them. It
seems to be the most uh profitable
picture I've ever seen in my life.
>> I mean, it's like the bro thing has come
back to life. The one of Palunteer
executive put out on X a picture of like
a Mad Men meme saying, "Oh, hear me out.
Palunteer should hire Sydney Sweeney to
hawk their products." So, it's this
weird thing and people are saying, "Ah,
it's 2021 again." But is it really? Cuz
we don't have the stimulus checks
circulating around and people in their
basements with all this free time able
to trade all these meme stocks. So, I
just wonder how long lasting it is. If
it is long-lasting, you get real
concerns about the structure and
leverage that comes along with some of
these yolo punts. But for now, it's just
a little flare up. I think the
concerning thing will be if it lasts
longer. I find it fascinating how
sophisticated it is looking at the short
interest of particular uh companies and
then saying actually we could squeeze
the short out. And that's one of the
things that people are examining to
understand which will be the popular
stocks on the Reddit uh talk chains.
Meanwhile, turning to the economy, US
new home sales remaining weak in June
and sales of previously owned homes
falling to a 9-month low with buyers put
off by higher prices and borrowing
costs. Bloomberg's Michael McKe joining
us now. Mike, a lot of people have
pointed to the housing market as being
anathema to all of the happy talk that
we hear in the rest of the economy.
What's going on here? Well, you know,
uh, President Trump, as you mentioned,
is arguing for lower interest rates, and
it's a sentiment shared by realtors and
homebuilders, even though that's not the
entire problem, but mortgage rates are
an issue. You mentioned existing home
sales at a 9-month low. Actually, uh,
they're at a 3.93 million annual rate,
and only one other time, 2023, did they
finish below 4 million since the
National Association of Realtors began
tallying these numbers. uh some time ago
in 1999. So it is a real problem and it
is the problem that is supposed to be
solved by lower interest rates. I was
talking with Walt Schmidt who's a
mortgage strategist at FHN Financial and
he said we probably need to get down
somewhere uh below 6%. Somewhere between
five and 6% might be the magic number
that gets people out of their houses
because right now everyone is holding
on. We know what happened during the
financial crisis and after. the interest
rates went to zero from the Fed,
mortgage rates went way, way down. Some
people got mortgage rates that begin
with a two. Do you want a two? You're
not going to get it again. But you can
see uh the effective mortgage rate.
That's the the white line there is the
rate that people are paying on average
here for mortgages. And you can see what
the rate is today in blue there. And
that's the major difference between why
we can't get anybody out to buy houses.
But home builders will tell you it's not
just that. It's also having the land and
having the ability to build new homes.
And at this point, they're not doing
that either. Uh new home side, there is
a very low level of homes under
construction. That's one of the uh worst
situations that we have seen in uh five
or more years. So, right now, we've got
a combination of issues. uh interest
rates being too high, uh zoning and
other problems in cities, and just no
houses being sold. And that's usually
the area that responds the most to Fed
rate cuts. So, a lot of people with
their fingers crossed besides the
president.
>> Michael McKe, uh thank you so much.
Great reporting as always. Let's
continue the conversation. Chenzho of
Redfin writing, "Record high home prices
and near all-time high monthly mortgage
payments are causing many buyers to
reconsider their purchases." Chen joins
us now. and Chen, you wrote that in June
alone, just over 57,000 home sale
agreements nationwide were cancelled.
How does this pair with the stories of
strength and economic resilience that we
keep hearing about?
>> Yes, thanks so much for having me today,
Lisa. So, what Redin found in our data
is that in June about 15% of the signed
contracts for buying a home were
cancelled. Um, and this is a little bit
higher than what we saw last year when
it was around 14%. um and you know the
also the previous year and which is also
an increase from the years past. So
we've kind of been gradually seeing this
proportion tick up and what's really
interesting is that that's just a
national average. If you look in certain
um markets especially in the Sunb Belt
or in Florida in particular that
proportion is actually closer to 20%. Um
so when we talk to our agents what we're
finding um out is that this is really
predominantly because of two reasons.
One is that, you know, consumers are a
little bit nervous. There's been a lot
of economic turmoil these past few
months and even though consumer
sentiment has sort of bounced back from
those troughs, um it's still quite a bit
lower than where it was last year. So,
people are nervous. And then the second
reason is really just that um if you
look across the country right now, most
of the country is in a buyer market. The
housing market has really shifted. So
last month, Redfin, we um used some of
our proprietary data to release a new
metric on how many active home buyers
there are out there. And what we found
is that right now there's about 34% more
home buyers than home sellers. And you
really have to go back into the
aftermath of the financial crisis to see
a proportion that high. Um so right now,
what does that tell us about home
buyers? It tells us that people have a
lot more choice. Um, so what we're
hearing from some of our agents is that,
you know, you have a nervous consumer,
but they also have a lot more power than
they've had over the last few years in
the housing market. And when a better
home comes along, sometimes they're
backing out. Why are prices still high
then? You'd figure that in that sort of
scenario where it's a buyer market, home
sales are hitting 17 year lows, that it
would be a market that would, I guess,
work properly and bring down prices with
it.
>> So, we are actually seeing that right
now. So, we do see that home price
growth is slowing down. So, if you
rewind back to the beginning of the
year, home prices were growing probably
five, six% year-over-year. Right now,
it's down closer to about 1 or 2%. And
you're seeing that momentum continue.
So, I mentioned that metric about the
ratio of the number of buyers to sellers
in the housing market. And what we've
seen is that if you look at that and
then you compare that to price growth,
it actually leads home price growth by
about 3 to six months in a very reliable
way. So what we can say is that we
really expect that by the end of this
year, home prices are probably going to
be pretty flat. Um, and they might even
be slightly negative year-over-year. And
that is really important for home buyers
because, you know, incomes are
continuing to increase about 4% a year,
right? inflation is about 3%. So in that
environment when nominal home prices are
flat or maybe slightly declining
negative 1% that means that um even when
mortgage rates are staying pretty high
buyers are getting a little bit of a
break on affordability.
>> So how much do uh mortgage rates have to
come down to boost prices again to get
activity back in the flow and to get
builders back on the front lines? So I
think that mortgage rates is one part of
this equation, right? Um we are
definitely not expecting mortgage rates
to come down into those threes or fours.
Again, it is possible um that I think in
the more medium-term you might see
mortgage rates coming down into the
fives, maybe the mid or high fives. Um
and if that is the case, I think after
three years where you've seen mortgage
rates close to 7%, that will feel like a
significant break. And that emotional
part is actually pretty important for a
lot of home buyers. But it's not just
mortgage rates, it's also home prices,
right? Because buyers are focused on
what is my mortgage payment. So I think
if you have mortgage rates coming down a
little bit. Um and then at the same
time, you get that price easing that I'm
talking about that could really start to
spur some activity in the housing
market.
>> Chenzo of Redfin, thank you so much for
being with us. Uh Chenzo there who runs
her economics team looking at the
housing market right now. Let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere. Here is
your Bloomber brief on Antihira.
>> Hi Lisa. Alphabet's G Google has sealed
a billion dollar deal to provide cloud
computing services to software firm
Service Now. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg, Service Now committed to
spending $1.2 billion over 5 years as
part of the agreement. Earlier this
year, Google also added OpenAI as a
customer and secured a $2.5 billion
commitment from Salesforce.
Meanwhile, federal officials are
considering putting a lean on Harvard's
property over allegations of mishandling
of anti-semitism on campus. The proposal
was included in a memo revealed in last
week's court filing. So far, no lean has
been filed with authorities. The White
House would not say whether it dismissed
the idea of that lean. And a development
in the cold play kiss cam saga.
Astronomer HR chief Kristen Cabo has
resigned just days after the CEO Andy
Byron stepped down. The company
announced it launched a formal
investigation into the scandal that
placed both on leave. That's your
Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. The memes of course
live on. Up next, the president's push
for cheaper crude.
>> We're number one in the world in oil and
we're drilling and today it hit $64 a
barrel, which is great. And that'll help
stop wars. Actually, you want to know
the truth. Francisco Blanch of Bank of
America joins next.
[Music]
You can't stop the optimism. It just
keeps getting filtered into markets in
this slow grind higher in a July that
has slowed down quite a bit. Right now,
you're seeing just that marginal grind
higher in S&P futures ahead of a massive
week next week. 38% of that index market
cap will be reporting earnings. Under
surveillance this morning, the
president's push for cheaper crude.
>> You know, we have the most oil of any
country in the world. We're number one
in the world in oil and we're drilling.
And today it hit $64 a barrel, which is
great. And that'll help stop wars.
Actually, you want to know the truth.
It's going to help stop wars. And we
hope to get it down a little bit more.
That's one of the reasons that
inflation's in check.
>> And that's certainly something a lot of
people have been commenting on. Here's
the latest. President Donald Trump
keeping up the pressure on oil producers
to maintain lower energy prices.
Francisco Blanch of Bank of America
writing this. We project Brent and WTI
to average 67 and $64 a barrel
respectively in 2025. Francisco joins us
now. And I guess that you could ask why
are prices not lower considering all of
the supply that we see coming out of the
Middle East and this push for drill baby
drill in the United States?
>> Uh thanks for having me Alyssa once
again. Um yeah, you know, it's uh it's
funny, right? So we we're getting a
weaker dollar. Uh we're getting slightly
lower oil uh potentially lower rates at
some point, right? That's it's all going
according to plan. Um I I I do think one
of the issues that has been supporting
oil has been the uh seasonal strength of
the uh summer months. Um but as we go
into the second half of the year, we are
going to likely see lower prices and and
and that's because inventories are most
likely to build outside of China.
Remember in the second quarter we had a
surplus but 97% of those barrels were
stored in Chinese strategic um reserves
and can you blame them after all the
volatility we've seen in the Middle
East, Russia, Ukraine. So the Chinese
are acutely aware of the geopolitics and
and the fact that they're the biggest
oil importer in the world. So 12 million
barrels a day. So they have a huge
exposure whether it's uh the straight of
Hormuz or Malaca. Um they still rely
heavily on oil despite all the electric
vehicles that they keep pushing into
their market. So I think that's that's
been part of the story. Uh my sense
they'll keep they'll keep building
inventories but they're almost they
almost have 40% of all oil stocks
globally at this point. Crude oil stocks
that is right. So um I I do think second
half of the year the surplus is going to
be close to 200 million barrels. Uh and
eventually we're going to spill out uh
from from Chinese inventories into the
Atlantic basin into into the US and
Europe. And that's what's going to allow
prices to come off. How much are we
going to come off will depend on on how
much opit plus keeps pushing barrels out
because we've seen the rick count in the
US is already coming down uh is down
15%. So uh my sense is that we'll see
lower prices but not necessarily prices
crashing
>> given the geopolitics and given the
supply demand dynamics that you were
just talking about. How divorced is the
price of oil from an economic cycle that
seems to hinge on a new industrial
revolution that 10 years ago would have
included a huge use of oil? Uh yeah,
this is a a very very good point and
when you think about um the energy
demand we're seeing today, it it's in
some places in the US is astronomical. I
mean Texan power demand is up 5.5% year
on year. I mean you can barely find an
emerging market that's growing at that
pace, right? I mean it's just this is
like insane. Um so I think if you if you
look at the next uh the next few months
the majority of the demand and and
probably next two three years the
majority of the demand for energy is
going to be still renewables also
natural gas which is what makes us
relatively constructive on Henry Hub and
and and even uh into the summer on TTF
European gas. Uh but for oil it's not
going to touch it immediately. It's
going to take a little longer. I'm not
even sure you know oil is a
transportation fuel for the most part.
So, so it's kind of uh left by the
wayside in this in this um AI revolution
for more energy at at this stage. Maybe
later on it may not, but for now it is.
>> Can you talk about that later on point?
What could it eventually look like?
>> Well, I mean, I think if you look 5
years out, the demand growth rates we're
seeing for energy, um they're going to
be pretty hard to meet. Um and and
remember how we've evolved. Two years
ago, uh the big tech companies were
looking for clean sources of power.
They're like, "Oh, we just want to use
super clean power." And then, you know,
renewals and this and that. And then
they said, "Well, maybe renewals and
nuclear and and now it's like renewals,
nuclear." Now, it's like, "Oh, just give
me any power you can find because we
really need a lot of power. I we need so
there's talks about building 10 15 uh
gigs of power in Pennsylvania. There's,
you know, you have the eastern border is
going to need a lot of power. Texas
already, you know, growing beyond belief
and and and even other parts of the US
where you have this data centers,
Pacific Northwest, you're going to have
a lot of growth. So, so and and then
eventually Europe as well and and the US
has a capacity problem. The US needs to
build those power plants. Europe because
it's destroyed its energy uh consumption
in the last couple years as a result of
Russia Ukraine actually does have the
capacity. So, so it's going to be an
interesting balancing act uh in the next
two three years for for power too. Well,
just on that point, we finally have a
ban on Russian imports coming into
effect for Europe and Totel Energy is
one of the biggest energy players in
Europe with saying, "Look, we have a
tightening diesel market because of
this, how played out is this? Is there
going to be more stress and tension in
the market and tightening of supplies as
the ban really starts to come into
force?" Uh there could be certainly and
and and you also have to ask yourself
okay so there's this ban on on uh
secondary um resell because the issue is
of course Europe doesn't want to buy
diesel that has come from originally
Russian crude oil which as as we know is
going mostly into India but also into
China right so so Europe's been buying
uh oil from from refiners that actually
do purchase Russian crude and that's
been one of the issues but Europe still
purchases 15% of of of its ass directly
from Russia, right? So, and that's that
goes for Belgium and France and Spain
and Italy and and does it make its way
into Germany too. So, Europe is trying
to really cut its dependency on Russia,
but it's is a it's a tough thing to do
because again only 3 years ago or three
and a half years ago 50% of European
energy, oil, gas and coal came from
Russia. So, so they're trying to do it
progressively um and and in the process
it's not been helping European industry
but but that's kind of I guess part of
the price that Europe is ready to pay.
Francisco, before we let you go, I'd
love a comment on oil and gold, excuse
me, the solid gold, the solid uh oil
that we've seen in terms of just how
people are treating it. We've seen
prices double since 2022 to more than
$3,000 uh an ounce. And I just wonder
how much higher you see it going as you
hear an increasing amount of people
point this out as the haven asset as the
real questions around fiat currency.
>> Right. So, so, uh, we have to be clear,
um, just like we are bearish on oil and
we're constructive on gas because of the
power story, we are we are bullish on on
on gold as well, we think gold is, uh,
eventually going to get to around 4,000
over the next per ounce, over the next
12 months. Um, having said that, gold
needs more investor demand. Uh, the
story has been mainly a central bank uh,
story and of course u, you know, there
was a nice uh tour yesterday of the uh,
of the Fed building that we saw that,
right? So um the pressure is on for for
the Fed to cut rates and uh obviously
people are going to question um
independence and and and one of the
beneficiaries of that questioning is
going to be the gold market, right? So
uh to what extent this um you know um
this pressure builds on the Fed,
political pressure, I think that's what
will ultimately trigger a higher price
for gold. But remember jewelry demand
for gold is down 20% year on year. So um
so so the real beneficiaries uh year to
date of of of the gold uh upside
pressure have been the other metals the
other precious metals like like silver
and platinum and palladium. So so gold
is is doing well. It's still picking up
momentum but it's already a 20 plus
trillion dollar market right there's 20
there's 20 plus trillion dollars worth
of gold out there. Remember US treasury
is in the hand of the public 20 trillion
or so right in the US public. Now you
have the foreigners which own another um
9 trillion. But but gold's gotten very
big and to to get another leg up u you
need lower rates. When this happens and
particular if those lower rates come on
the back of of political pressure I
think gold will get another another leg
wind.
>> All I can say is we saw a tour of the
Fed. I would have loved to see a tour of
Fort Knox. That's all I can say.
>> That's where they should meet next time.
Donald and Trump at Fort Knox.
>> I would like to see that tour. Uh
Francisco Blanch of Bank of America.
Thank you so much. Great to see you as
always. Coming up in the next hour,
David Stubs of Alphacore, Brian Vicero
of Raymond James, Greg Do of Ey, and
Vishel Kanduja of Morgan Stanley. This
is Bloomberg.
[Music]
>> I think we've had a great run. I think
investors should feel good about that.
The AI theme has kicked back in.
>> The AI bullishness is there. I don't
think that that has changed.
>> Overall, these foundational supports are
what's driving markets. I do think
investors do need to prepare for what
could feel like a very different second
half.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. 90 minutes until the start
of trading. grinding upward ahead of a
massive week of earnings with 38% of the
S&P set to report next week. A big week
for the Fed as well. Central bankers
preparing to hold rates steady despite
pressure from the White House and of
course all eyes on the jobs data to end
the week. Danny Berger in John and AMH
are off today. Danny, it is wonderful to
have you. Can we make it day five? Five
straight consecutive days of new record
highs in the S&P. Considering this is a
market that is, I don't know, not paying
attention to anything or doesn't care
about anything. Sure, why not? And the
fact that earnings have held up, it's
reminiscent of where we were to start
this year. Expectations that M&A is
going to get better, hitting all-time
highs. Even meme stocks are back. It's
led to some to say, like Michael
Hartnett, that it's the makings of a
bubble. Something that Max Kentner at
HSBC said, "What bubble? Fundamentals
are good. We can keep going higher."
>> Well, let's dig into that. Michael
Hardin making the argument that if you
have governments that are deregulating
some of the investment landscape for
particularly retail investors and you
have central banks that are dropping
rates even though there is this strength
in the economy you are going to get
those animal spirits that can get over
their skis. A lot of people not really
seeing this as the case and frankly one
of the things that's interesting is
people have been ratcheting back their
expectations for how much central
bankers around the world are going to
cut rates because of the strength that
we're seeing in the economy. I think
that's so important because one of
Hartnett's tenants is this idea that it
is global central banks that are pushing
back that are starting to cut rates and
allowing these things to go on as
spending continues in governments. What
happens if we get more of what we got
from the ECB saying we're in a good
place? We don't need to continue to cut.
Does that mean that for all these fears
of a bubble, they're just not there? if
it are central banks that are starting
to pause.
>> Well, right now we're looking at the
potential for also a Fed chair to have a
pretty awkward Fed meeting next week,
especially after the image that we have
replayed on repeat just simply because
it was made for playing on repeat, which
is the hard hats, etc. on Wednesday, we
could do get that Fed decision where
central bankers are largely expected to
remain on hold. How fraught will that
become given some of what we heard just
yesterday? I was going to say sometimes
Powell gets up there at a press
conference and looks kind of
uncomfortable. I think I'm going to
retract ever saying he looked
uncomfortable cuz we saw what it
actually looked like to see Powell
uncomfortable. Kind of chuckling off
some of the comments from Trump. But
maybe that face tof face interaction had
the net impact of taking some of the
heat off that they just needed to get in
a room together, hash it out, put on
their hard hats, take off their hard
hats. But it's the unavoidable. The Fed
chairmanship comes up in next year.
That's going to be the real point of
concern. Who comes in next? Is it
someone that is going to listen to Trump
more acutely and really start to cut
rates more than they otherwise would
have? Right now, the market is closing
their ears and they are just saying what
we are watching is the earnings. At
least when you take a look at the equity
markets, the investment that you
potentially see coming in from the AI
boom. We're seeing S&P futures retrace
some of the earlier gains, but still
positive. Uh up about uh less than a
tenth of a percent. You're seeing a bit
of dollar strength after yesterday's
jobless claims came in less than
expected. a little bit grind higher in
terms of yields, although uh not that
dramatic. Coming up this hour, David
Stubs of Alphacore following a fresh
record high. Brian Vicero of Raymond
James after Chipotle cut its forecast
yet again despite those free burritos.
And Greg Deo of EY with the labor market
on solid footing at least for now. We
begin this hour with stocks uh steady
after hitting a fresh record high on AI
optimism. David Stubs of Alphacore
writing this. Short-term caution given
where markets have run to. Seasonally
weak and thin August markets await.
David joins us now. And David, you are
probably the first person that we've had
on this show this morning that has
sounded a note of caution. So,
congratulations. What What kind of
response do you get from clients when
you say, "Hold on a second. This has run
pretty far. Maybe it's time to take a
break."
>> Well, good morning, Lisa. Great to be
with you. I think we're just observing
obviously a a pretty frothy set of
markets right now. You've covered how
many record highs we've hit. The meme
stocks are back and you have the
combination of high valuations, low
volatility, uh you know, and very tight
spreads across your credit as well. And
you market's just in a in a particularly
you joyous place right now going into
August, which and we all know that
liquidity tends to be thin in August.
Accidents do happen in August. So look
at Alpha Core, we're not particularly
tactical, we're not uh, you know,
de-risking, you know, notably around
this, but just looking at the setup and
and watching your show all week and how
many people have have talked about the
extraordinary things we're seeing in
some of the equity markets, you have to
wonder, you know, are we going to see
some volatility ahead in the next couple
of months? Certainly plenty of triggers
for that await us.
>> Do you have to care about the volatility
if ultimately the path is upward? I
mean, I guess we hear about people
coming on the show and they'll say,
"Yeah, we've got volatility ahead.
August tends to be a rocky month and
we're going to be in there buying that
dip. I mean, can you get very
enthusiastic about a dip that you have
15 buyers lined up to buy?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I think you always
have to care about volatility. um a a
lot of wealth management clients will
get scared when there's a draw down and
I think we think about that by
incorporating alternatives and private
markets at the core of portfolios from
the start always and forever as it were
and also utilizing alternative
strategies things like uncorrelated
managers uh you know to reduce draw
downs in in most scenarios build
structurally resilient portfolios and I
think that's our that's our focus and I
think that um when you look at a
collection of opportunities we see over
the next few years There's there's a lot
to like about the techn technological
innovation. We've just had, you know,
obviously a lot of fiscal support.
There's a deregulatory um impulse in the
United States right now as well. Over
the medium-term, you know, that keeps us
invested, but you have to um recognize
how far we've come at the moment. So, I
don't think we'd be piling on extra risk
here, but I do think we see a collection
of themes playing out over the medium
term that we want clients to have
exposure to. will just pair some
exposure in liquid markets, great public
equities or great asset class um with
those in private markets as well.
>> David, one of the issues you write about
that suggests that positioning is
getting stretched is this idea that
defenses are getting crushed relative to
cyclicals. We were talking with Alicia
Leavine of BNY Wealth earlier who said
that part of the reason that cyclicals
are doing well is because of the massive
capital expenditure spend that's coming
from some of the hyperscalers that's
inducing more industrials to outperform.
Is that not a theme that could endure or
is it really a sign that things are
getting stretched here?
>> I think it's a very enduring theme, but
we all know that equity markets can, you
know, price things in aggressively and
they've come quite of a way already. I
think that, you know, the capex AI theme
is not just a narrative for the equity
market, it's a narrative for the
economy. I if you look at the uh
secretary Besson's tweet from earlier in
in the week talking about the strength
of capital expenditures up around 17%
annualized I believe in the first half
of the year. Look at the uh the data
center energy nexus that's at the heart
of of many thematic investors right now
and we're believers of that in in the
medium term you for sure. I think the
huge question that awaits all analysts
is how long does this run and then how
long how do you pivot your AI
investments away from capital
expenditures towards you know the the
rest of the supply chain and indeed
towards
AI when does that happen I think it's
still years away don't get me wrong but
I I would give one example of
positioning where we're trying to take a
broader approach than just buying these
massive AI plays We're actually long an
active growth manager right now in our
in our uh equity holdings instead of
being long, you know, the the NASDAQ um
you on its own. We're hoping that active
managers in the growth theme will not go
after the obvious AI plays, but we'll
find some AI adjacent stocks as well as
the theme continues to mature. So, we're
very optimistic about that. We like to
play it both through public markets and
private markets, uh you know, as always.
But there's just one measure of
positioning that we see at the moment,
cyclicals versus offensive, and it's
come a long way. David Stubs of Alph
Core, thank you so much for being with
us. That was David Stubs there talking
about why even though they do see
volatility ahead, they are still
optimistic. I think this is an
interesting discussion, the idea of
private markets and what role they're
going to play in the whole AI
infrastructure buildout and this
argument that it isn't just about taking
less risk. It's about another way of
investing in infrastructure that has
maybe a different maturity profile.
Well, it also becomes a self-fulfilling
prophecy if you say private markets
offer a better diversification right now
because what we've seen is that private
companies are staying private for longer
that public equities are shrinking. I
think over something like over the past
five decades number of public companies
have shrunk by half. So what happens if
it's an investor base right now that
starts turning to private markets that
for retirement funds they start turning
to private markets. If more capital goes
there does that mean less public
companies? And if they're less public
companies, does that mean less robust
indexes and exchanges? So, it could have
this snowball effect. And I think it's
just something to keep an eye on as more
and more people start saying for our
clients, we want them to look at
alternatives.
>> Right now, let's get you an update on
other alternative stories this morning.
Here is your Bloomberg brief with
Yahira, Anna, and Yahara. Hi, Lisa.
Here's an alternative story. President
Trump put on a hard hat and toured the
renovations at the Federal Reserve with
Chair Powell. And as we've been playing
all morning, there was a tense moment
when the president claimed the price tag
had jumped from 2.5 to over $3 billion.
In response, Powell said Trump's claim
included a building that had already
been completed 5 years ago. Meanwhile,
Alphabet's Google has sealed a billion
dollar deal to provide cloud computing
services to software firm Service Now.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg,
Service Now committed to spending $1.2 2
billion over 5 years as part of the
agreement. Earlier this year, Google
also added OpenAI as a customer and
secured a $2.5 billion commitment from
Salesforce. And the Trump administration
is suing New York City over its
sanctuary city policies. The law the
laws at issue prevent law enforcement
from honoring a civil immigration
detainer without a warrant. Mayor Eric
Adams responded saying the laws go too
far and need to be re-examined. That's
your Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yahara, up next, the
morning calls, plus Brian Vicero of
Raymond James with Chipotle cutting its
forecast again. We'll get into the
nitty-gritty of free burritos and free
chicken and why that wasn't enough to
stem some of the weakness that we're
seeing in Chipotle Mexican Grill. This
is blueber surveillance.
[Music]
I have real trouble both with weakness
in the labor market and with a more
hawkish Fed that that really changes the
picture because once again it's the
growth it's the earnings picture that is
really really solid and that really I
think that really puts into question
that notion of this being a bubble. I
think the rally can stay for at least
through the summer.
>> That was Max Kentner of HSBC getting
triggered by the concept of a bubble and
saying absolutely not. Right now it is
uh we're looking at markets that are
climbing after five or four consecutive
days of record highs. S&P futures up
just about five uh basis points. And
really a question here about whether we
can make it day five of new record highs
just with marginal gains every day
inching higher for the fifth consecutive
day. Time now for the morning calls.
First up, Jeffre raising Union Pacific
to buy, noting its potential tie up with
Norfolk Southern could be
transformational. Those shares up about
a half a percent. Next up, Loop Capital
downgrading Ulta Beauty to hold, saying
its bullish outlook is largely priced in
after the Fed for 10-year-old girls
tends to Wayne. Those shares lower by
about 1.4%. And finally, Bank of America
raising its price target on American
Airlines to $13, noting slightly better
unit and revenue costs. Those shares
higher by about 6/10en of a percent
after having a difficult session
yesterday. The earnings not giving the
same type of optimism as we heard from
Delta and United. Sticking with the
consumer, Chipotle falling the most in 5
years after cutting its annual outlook
for the second time this year. The
company saying its honey chicken launch
and burrito giveaways weren't enough to
offset a slump in traffic. The story
you've been wanting to hear about all
morning. Michael Halen, Bloomberg
Intelligence senior restaurant analyst
joins us now. What went wrong? Free
burritos, honey chicken. What exactly
has been the problem right now for
Chipotle?
>> Yeah, you know what? They didn't really
give us much color on this call about
that. You know, it was a weird call. Uh,
you know, I didn't think it was a very
good one for the management team. There
was it was heavy on excuses, very light
on details. You know, they they
mentioned that Honey Chicken did really
well. So, a minus 4% same source sales
comp indicates their base business is
declining pretty rapidly, right? And
they said there were no missteps, but in
the first quarter call they said the
stores were dirty and the hospitality
was poor. So which one is it right? And
when you underperform the index, the
blackbox index we which we use by 430
basis points. I mean it sounds like
there were some significant missteps
here. You know we suspect value is an
issue. You know they've been uh
investing in larger portion size to
address that over the last year. But
then at the same time on the call they
say that you know we think we provide
good value. So honestly it was a pretty
confusing call. I think investors um
really you know have doubts now about
their ability to get back to that mid
singledigit seam store sales growth.
>> Michael I was listening to the same
thing on the call when they basically
said we think we provide value that
we're not going to offer something that
looks cheaper. We just need to do a
better job of communicating the fact
that we provide value for the consumer.
Is that the right tactic that Chipotle
should be taking?
>> You know, it's hard to say. I mean, a
lot of things have to be going wrong
when you're doing a a minus four seam
store sales comp, right? Especially in a
restaurant environment, that's not that
bad. You know, fast casual uh same store
sales were up, you know, not a lot, but
they were up, you know, 30 basis points
in the quarter, right? So if you're
underperforming by that much, there's a
lot of things going on. On the first,
like I said, on that first quarter call,
they they talked about some operational
issues. That's typically where you start
to see some slippage, right, is on the
operations. And CEO Scott Boat, right,
was the former chief operating officer,
right? So, so I think nailing those
operations probably is the first piece.
Um, and in terms of the value, you know,
we're not sure. you know, maybe they
need to make another investment uh in
the portion sizes, right? The comp some
of the companies that we cover that uh
offer the most food for what you pay
tend to outperform. So, think Texas
Roadhouse, Wingstop, Darden. These
companies have the highest food food
costs. Uh of all the companies we cover,
um people recognize that they recognize
the value that they get for their dollar
and it and it lifts traffic. Michael
Halen of Bloomberg Intelligence. Thank
you so much for being with us and I look
forward to parsing through all of the uh
the different restaurants and casual
fast casual dining uh that we all know
and love. Joining us now, Brian Vicero
of Raymond James, which has an
outperform rating on an $60 price target
on Chipotle. He joins us now. Brian,
thank you so much for being with us. I
want to start with what we were just
hearing hearing from Michael Halen who
was not impressed by the call and take a
step back and just say how much are you
seeing differences in execution during
this earning season between the halves
of the fast uh the fast casual
restaurant chains and the have nots.
>> Yeah, thanks and good morning. Nice to
see you. Um I think what I would say uh
to start would be we need to maintain
perspective here. uh we need to maintain
some perspective of how strong Chipotle
has been over the last few years and
especially last year in the second
quarter. So when you see the down 4%
comp we do need to maintain perspective
that they were up against an up 11% last
year which included the month of April
up in the high teens. And so this is a
business that in some ways caught
lightning in a bottle in April with the
second year of the return of chicken al
pastor that was a huge hit last year. Um
so the two-year run rates are are much
less concerning uh in our view though it
does seem that they have seen a
moderating in trends uh that we need to
uh get a better assessment of and a
better understanding of and I think over
time you you'll see that um when you see
businesses I'll pivot this to the
general comment when you see businesses
that that go from uh explosive growth
and outperformance to a little bit of
outperformance there's always a lot of
contributing factors to that uh to keep
in mind and um one of the things that
that we've talked to them offline about
and been asking about is some of their
internal uh get satisfaction and
operational scores. Um and those metrics
uh continue to show strength. Um yes,
they had the portion size uh issue last
year which they addressed in in a cohort
of their stores 10 or 15% of their
stores I believe. Um, but I do not
believe that they have a value
proposition issue at all. Um, in my
local market, uh, it is $9.50 for the
Chipotle chicken bowl or burrito. And in
many of the quick service restaurants or
in the area, um, those value meals start
in the 10 to1050 uh,1050 range.
>> Yeah. So, I think from an absolute price
point perspective, Chipotle continues to
have a very strong value proposition.
>> What I'm struck by, Brian, is the
conversation we're not having this
morning. We're talking about chicken al
pastor and we're talking about $9
chicken burrito bowls, but we're not
talking about consumers that are pull
pulling back wholesale or any kind of
macro problems that these companies are
facing. Is that really an accurate
portrayal of the landscape that this
that the consumer is solid that any kind
of supply chain disruptions are
manageable and that really this comes
down to when you roll out your chicken
al pastor?
Well, I think um you know, so far we
have two companies under our belt uh so
far in Q2 earning season and and we're
seeing results that that point to a
mixed and choppy consumer backdrop uh
with some clear differences between the
lower and middle upper income consumer.
Uh in our view, you know, at a high
level, I think the lower income consumer
seems to be under pressure. uh we're
expecting to see that in softer sales
results for most quicks service
restaurants this earning season. Uh and
on the flip side, the middle and upper
income consumer seems to be doing okay.
Um and and we've actually seen some
stronger sales trends within the casual
dining sector, which we haven't seen in
many years. That would be the sitdown
category of restaurants like Olive
Garden, Chili's, and Texas Roadhouse.
those brands uh those that that that
sector underperformed meaningfully in 23
and 24 and we're seeing that snap back
here with casual dining comps that were
up about 4% year-on-year in the second
quarter. Um it does seem that the jobs
and income backdrop remains pretty
supportive in the aggregate. Um but the
big swings in consumer sentiment are
likely weighing and contributing to the
choppiness uh and and and at times have
created a few air pockets. uh through
the first half and we talked about
Chipotle on this week's call. They did
notice they saw some softness in May and
they attributed that to the big decline
in sentiment uh that we saw more broadly
and obviously that was following the big
market pullback in April as well.
>> Brian Vicero of Raymond James, thank you
so much uh for being with us. Right now
we want to shift gears back to the
Federal Reserve responding right now to
the visit between President Trump and
Cher Powell yesterday. Bloomberg's
Michael McKe joins us now. Mike, what's
the latest?
>> It was apparently quite the honorable
meeting. The president yesterday posted
that he was honored to tour the Fed. The
Fed today saying they were honored to
have him. In a tweet just posted on
social media, the Federal Reserve says
they were honored to welcome the
president yesterday for a visit to our
historic headquarters. We appreciated
the opportunity to share progress on the
renovation with him and with Senators
Tim Scott and Tom Tillis. They're
grateful for the president's
encouragement to complete this project
and they say they remain committed to
continuing to be careful stewards of
these resources as we see the project
through to completion. Now, this has
been sort of a hallmark of the Powell
Fed in the Trump years. The president
can say whatever he wants and the Fed
either doesn't say anything or responds
in a very nice manner. They don't seem
to want to pick a fight with the
president other than Paul saying he
would not resign. So maybe this brings
an end to some of the squirrel aspects
of this whole uh Fed renovation issue.
We may not see quite as many tweets on
that from the president. Uh and
certainly not from the Fed, but I'm sure
if the Fed does not cut rates next week,
we'll hear from Mr. Trump again.
>> I'm sure that we will. Michael McKe,
stay close. We're going to come back to
you in just a minute. And it is amazing
how much we have been shrugging this off
because it is a very made for TV moment
which is what President Trump does very
well. But it does raise a question about
this sort of blanket approach to get the
Fed to lower rates ahead of next week's
Fed meeting.
>> Right. It's everything kind of thrown at
the Fed at this moment from issues about
the construction of this to are they
getting things wrong because housing
prices are still high and mortgages need
to come down. It's something that's been
difficult for the Fed to try to respond
to and they've been trying to respond to
it in bits from posting blog posts
saying here's why the building overruns
aren't that big of an issue to trying to
justify why rates stand where they are.
It's something that Powell is going to
have to deal with next week. It is real
political pressure, but if anything, a
lot of comments have been made how that
pressure is made Powell more steadfast.
That's made him less likely to cut
because he wants to be remembered as a
Fed chair that stood up to that
political pressure. Watch the descents.
That's what people are saying. You're
going to see maybe Chris Waller, uh,
maybe Mickey Bowman both saying, "Well,
maybe we should have cut." Coming up,
we're going to discuss that and more.
Greg Day of EY with the labor market on
solid footing. Plus, Yahara Anand with
your morning movers is intel slides with
concerns around that turnaround plan.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance,
[Music]
looking to make it day five of record
highs at the close. Just inching higher.
And it is remarkable, as Danny was
mentioning earlier, just how little
activity there is behind each day of a
record high. Right now, S&P futures up
about 10 uh by onetenth of 1%. Russell
2000 futures up about 3/10en of a
percent. In the bond market, a little
bit of a lift in yields, price down
after what we saw yesterday from the
ECB. When they came out, it seemed to
indicate they weren't going to
necessarily cut rates again anytime
soon. You're seeing this across the
board. It's uh across the curve, but
nothing particularly dramatic. And then
when you bleed it out through the
currency space, a bit of dollar
strength, especially on the heels of
some economic data that came out
yesterday, jobless claims with the right
kind of downside surprise, you're seeing
Euro dollar 11725.
Still the calls coming from the likes of
George Saravellos of much more euro
strength ahead. Economic data uh has
been very much in the forefront,
crossing right now ahead of a busy
schedule next week. Blueber's Mike McKe
joins us now.
We have durable goods orders out and
they are down 9.3% after rising 16.5%
last month. Now when you have a swing
that big, it's usually because of Boeing
and uh the timing of their orders. I'll
check that out for you. X transportation
durable goods up 2/10. Uh also
underlining that idea. Capital goods
orders leaving out non-defense aircraft
were down 710 though. That's the part
that goes into the uh uh uh into the GDP
numbers and so that's a little bit
worrisome. They were up 1.7% the month
before. We will have to see what the uh
problem is there. Uh the Fed is going to
be worried about a slowdown. Of course,
one of the questions about business
spending has been uh did companies just
load up on inventory and spend it down
and not put in new orders waiting to see
what the consumer is going to do? This
will be a discussion point for the Fed
next week, but they are not expected, as
you have been saying all day, to do
anything, not to uh cut rates at all.
What we're going to be looking for is
whether or not the Fed is going to see
dissents from two governors for the
first time ever. And the markets are
going to be also watching for future cut
guidance. There's a lot of feeling they
might set us up for a September cut.
looking at durable goods, looking at
what we get in terms of jobs next week
and saying, "Well, maybe we're seeing
some signs of this or that that we want
to move on." And I think we can predict
that no matter what uh Donald Trump is
going to be unhappy and will tweet about
it either way. Uh we have seen some uh
inflation in the last couple of CPI and
uh PCE reports. We get PCE next Friday
too or next Thursday rather after the
Fed meeting. But the Fed could point to
that and say that's why we do not want
to cut which puts the emphasis on those
later meetings. Uh July, September,
October, December, four meetings left
this year. Two cuts priced in. Do we
really get that? That'll all depend on
the data. And uh while I look up what
happened with Boeing, uh I just want to
say I too am honored to have been here
for this show like the president and the
Fed.
>> Thank you so much, Michael McKe. uh with
a look ahead. Right now you're seeing uh
priced into Fed funds futures a 64%
chance the Fed will cut in September. So
to what Mike was saying about setting up
the market for that September rate cut,
Greg Do of EY writing this economic
activity is decelerating even as
inflationary pressures are reemerging.
This tension is likely to persist
through the summer. Greg joins us now.
And Greg, we just had a lineup of people
all saying that the economy is going
strong. people are just deciding which
fast casual restaurant to go to and
there definitely does not seem to be the
same kind of inflationary pressure that
many people thought would be the case.
Why are you maintaining this idea of a
stagflationary push that just hasn't
shown up in the data yet?
>> Well, I think it hasn't shown up in the
superficial data. But if you lift the
hood, you're going to see the signs of
this stagflationary move. If you look at
the recent developments in terms of
inflation, we estimate that about a
third to a fourth of the push in
inflation in the month of June was
actually coming from tariff induced
price pressures. So it's there. It's
slowly starting to emerge. And I've
written in the past about the fact that
it's not that we're not seeing the
tariff pressures. It's that they're
taking some time to filter through
because businesses have been managing
inventories because they've been using
bonded warehouses and foreign trade
zones because the effective tariff rate
is not quite yet at the average tariff
rate and there is a gap between those
two. All these measures are delaying the
inflation pass through. But make no
mistake, it is materializing and it will
affect us with more and more pressure
over the course of the summer which will
feed into how consumers spend. And we're
seeing these signs of pressures on the
consumer already. If you look at retail
sales, the categories that were most
affected by the tariffs are the ones
that are suffering the most.
>> So what happens then if we feel the real
effects later this year and early next
year? At the same time, we're starting
to get Fed cuts and you're starting to
see the one big beautiful bill, some of
the stimulus flow through from that.
>> Well, I think it's important to
distinguish all of the different details
that are affecting the economy. There
are a lot of crossurrens which make for
this very confusing economic picture,
but the reality is that the economy is
decelerating. If you look at the labor
market momentum, it is actually
decelerating. Slower job growth, more
concentration of job growth in a few
sectors. We are seeing continuing claims
for unemployment that are rising even
though after the hump we saw initial
claims come back down. We're seeing the
hiring rate at a 10-year low. All of
these factors are factors that drive
income growth, the key pillar to
consumer spending activity. And that is
weighed to the downside. So that's going
to be a constraint for consumer spending
as we navigate through the second half
of the year. At the same time as
inflation pressures are ramping up and
about that fiscal bill that is not going
to provide a lot of stimulus in terms of
the US economy the major thing the one
big beautiful does is prevent the expiry
of a number of tax provisions from the
tax cuts and jobs act that prevents a
drag on the economy of 1% but the actual
net boost to the economy we calculate
will be around 0.2 0.3 percentage points
of GDP not a big uh benefit for the cost
of that bill. Well, the other uh factor
to put into this too is also what we
might see in terms of a supply shock to
the a supply shock in the labor market
going from something like four million
people coming into the US a year, a lot
of them working age men going to
something like just a few hundred
thousand per year. Have we started to
see the effects and what will the
effects be going forward?
>> I think that's a much underdised topic,
the immigration topic. uh because we are
in an environment where increasingly
economic activity is driven by supply
side factors. Whereas before COVID it
was all about demand side factors, now
it's increasingly about supply side
factors. It's the supply of labor. It's
the supply of capital. It's the supply
of energy. It's trade and logistics. And
when it comes to immigration, you're
absolutely right. It's been a key driver
of economic activity. If we start to see
less immigration, that is going to do a
couple of things. One, it will weigh
directly on spending because people
there are fewer people that are spending
less in part because they're fearful.
And two, it drives lower supply, lower
labor supply, which weighs on employment
growth, which weighs on your economy's
potential to grow. Combined, all of
these represent a drag of about 0.3.4
percentage points over the next year.
That's more than the one big beautiful
bill that we were just discussing. It's
one reason why people are looking at
this uh this miss on capital goods
orders that include non-defense aircraft
as being particularly notable. Stay
close, Greg, for one second. Michael
McKe, you've got some more details. And
what exactly was behind that?
>> It is sometimes fairly easy to figure
out durable goods orders when you have
these big swings. It's usually Boeing.
They reported a decline of 51.8%
in new orders uh for the month of June.
Boeing and some of the smaller little uh
private plane makers. Uh and that
compares with a 231%
rise in the month before in May. So you
can see why we get these big swings.
Unless you're Danny Burgerer, you're not
buying a new uh Boeing jet every month.
Uh we also saw a decline in
manufacturing orders of 12.8%. That's
something the Fed will keep an eye on
along with uh computers and
communications equipment. They both were
down on the month and this may signal
that business is sitting on its hands.
Uh one last note, uh capital goods
shipments were up 4/10en after a 510
rise the month before and that was uh
double what was anticipated. So maybe we
have a little more strength in the
second quarter, the rebound from all
those imports etc that we saw in the
first quarter. Uh those numbers will
feed into a better thanex expected
perhaps second quarter GDP which we get
on Wednesday when the Fed is making its
decision.
>> Thank you so much Michael McKe and Danny
Burgerer is here to tell us all about
your selection of Boeing jets that Mike
somehow put on your radar.
>> Apparently every month I'm buying a new
Boeing jet. You all are welcome to join
I guess. I don't know where we're going
with an entire jet, but you know what
Michael's talking about is actually
really important and this idea that
we've heard about so much this morning,
which is that it used to be just
investment in assets and liquidityheavy
kinds of corporate investment. Now we're
talking about real physical investment
in this whole industrial revolution. At
what point do you see that really
offering a boost to both productivity as
well as growth that hasn't been
accounted for in so many of the more
pessimistic outlooks for the US economy?
Well, I've been an optimistic on the
productivity front. Despite the fact
that I'm quite reserved in terms of the
short-term cyclical outlook, I've been
very optimistic about the exceptionalism
that we were seeing going into 2025
because it was driven by strong
productivity growth that was coming from
the bottom up. It wasn't yet the AI lift
that we're all talking about. It was
actually businesses being more efficient
with the talent on hand that costs more
in today's environment, ensuring longer
tenure, better trained employees are
better able to contribute to economic
activity. And it was this focus on
investing in the infrastructure that
will support AI that is often
undercounted. And then on top of that,
you have a desire to push more
industrial policy and focus on driving
more manufacturing investment. It won't
bring back the jobs, but it will bring
back more economic activity and more
potential supply. That is right now
underounted, but it is still one of the
key pillars of economic activity driving
that stronger productivity momentum.
>> Does that mean for all the fears of
growth slowing and inflation picking up
that it's not quite stagflation? Because
you have some of these forces, it would
moderate the worst case scenario.
>> Well, I think economic activity is a
flow notion, right? And so we are still
benefiting from a very robust economy.
As I was saying, up until the start of
2025, we had an economy that had been
growing at a 3% pace with disinflation.
Inflation was moving lower. So, we had
the best of both worlds. We had
essentially strong productivity growth
supporting a very strong economy and
disinflationary currents. We're
gradually moving to the opposite of
that, a stagflationary environment where
economic activity is slowing and
inflation is accelerating. And that
becomes a headache for policy makers
around the world, but including the Fed,
which has to balance these divergence
pressures in terms of the employment
mandate and the inflation mandate.
>> Considering the pressure from the White
House inevitably, especially next year
when we have a Fed chair appointed by
President Trump, does this just turn
into a Fed that puts more weight on the
growth side of the mandate, even if
inflation is still picking up?
>> No, I think the Fed will have to pay
attention to both sides of the mandate.
That is what it's supposed to do. Um,
but it has to determine whether the
pressures from tariffs are one-off
pressures, which is the argument that
Governor Waller has been making. It's
the argument that I've been making for a
while now. That essentially this tariff
induced inflation is going to be a
temporary one. That we are still seeing
significant disinflationary currents in
particular from the shelter side of the
economy. That inflation expectations are
still well anchored. um and that we're
not necessarily going to see second
round effects because the labor market
is softening and you're not going to see
the types of pressure that we saw during
COVID with wage inflation accelerating.
In my opinion, that opens the window for
the Fed to neutralize monetary policy
from a slightly restrictive stance to a
more neutral stance with some easing
over the course of the next few months.
>> Greg Deo of EY, thank you so much. Just
a a note that that isn't necessarily as
sexy as dawning a a hard hat and going
through the renovations, but maybe that
would be uh the conversation that's more
akin to what we get in the Eckles
building next week. Right now, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here's your Bloomberg brief
with Yahara Anna and Dihara. Hi, Lisa.
Tesla plans to launch its robo taxi
service in San Francisco this weekend.
That's according to an internal memo
seen by Business Insider. It reports the
robo taxis will have a safety monitor in
the driver's seat who will have full
access to the brake and steering wheel.
Some Tesla owners will be sent an invite
to use the service according to the
memo. Meanwhile, meme stock mania made a
comeback this week and traders made
American Eagle their latest target after
the retailer announced the new campaign
headline headlined by actress Sydney
Sweeney. Shares of Open Door, GoPro,
Crispy Cream, and Kohl's also saw a
surge this week as traders piled into
speculative corners of the market. And
we end on some bad news. A massive heat
wave is expected to blanket most of the
East Coast today. More than 129 million
people across more than 20 states are
under life-threatening heat alert.
Cities from Washington to New York City
and Boston will see highs well into the
'9s with a real feel of more than 100°.
A few daily record highs may be
challenged. Mr. Bloomberg brief Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yahira, happy Friday.
Go off and enjoy it, I guess, as we all
try to figure out how to beat the heat.
Up next, setting you up for the day
ahead. Plus, Vichel Kanduja of Morgan
Stanley on the impact of tariffs on
inflation. One of the elusive questions
of 2025. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
We're just taking a look at what's
happening. You know, it's a it's a tough
construction job. It looks like it's
about 3.1 billion. It went up a little
bit or a lot. Uh, so the 2.7 is now 3.1.
>> I'm not aware of that.
>> Yeah, it just came out.
>> Yeah, I haven't heard that from anybody
at the Fed. You're including the Martin
renovation. You just added in a third
building is what that is. That's a third
building.
>> It's a building that's being built.
>> No, it's been it was built 5 years ago.
>> It's part of the overall
>> Well, I'd love him to lower interest
rates, but other than that,
>> other than that, what can I tell you?
That was President Trump grilling Fed
Chair Jay Powell on renovation costs.
And I have to say, Danny, do you think
they actually needed the hard hats?
Well, the fact that Trump was like,
"Hey, let's take these off. We don't
need these anymore. We're out of the
danger zone." Probably not. Reminds me
when politicians also tour zones with
the bright orange vests. It's like the
fact that there are cameras everywhere
and security, I think, would alert
people to the fact that they're there.
But they look good in them. That's all I
can say. Less than an hour away from the
cash open. Here are your morning movers.
Yra and Yhira. Hi, Lisa. Intel is moving
away from its build it and they will
come strategy. And how are investors
reacting? Well, not good. Shares are now
down 8.6% but CEO Lip Bhutan is charging
ahead. He plans to cut jobs and scrap
some of its major factory projects after
it poured billions to try and become a
chip foundry powerhouse. But no longer.
And the disappointment didn't start stop
there. It also guided lower on margins
and offered little to no clarity on how
it plans to compete in AI. And it was a
blowout quarter for our next stock and
that is Deckers. Shares are up 11.7%.
This is the company behind UGGs and
those chunky Hoka sneakers. Sales rose
by double digits in both those for both
those brands. But it's not smooth
sailing from from here because this is a
shoe maker. So of course it's caught in
the crossfires of tariffs. And while it
was able to mostly blunt the impact by
front-loading shipments, it does say
that price hikes may be coming as those
costs start to catch up to them. And we
end on shares of Paramount. They are up
1.2%
after the FCC approved its merger with
Sky Dance, but it came with some strings
attached to appease the agency leader, a
Republican appointed by President Trump.
To secure the green light, the company
had to end some of its diversity
initiatives and agreed to add a watchdog
to supervise any bias at the media
company. So, what happens from here?
Well, Sherry Redstone, who's c whose
family has run this company for decades,
will step down when it's completed, and
David Ellison will become chairman and
CEO. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yahara, have a
wonderful weekend and thank you for this
morning. And counting down to the
opening bell, here is the trading diary
for the week ahead, and it's a big one.
On Monday, we have Treasury Secretary
Scott Besset and Commerce Secretary
Howard Lutnik meeting with their Chinese
counterparts in Stockholm. On Tuesday,
earnings from Starbucks. Wednesday, a
Fed rate decision and a Chair Powell
news conference. Some renewed focus on
that, plus earnings from Meta and
Microsoft. Thursday, jobless claims and
results from Apple and Amazon. Finally,
on Friday, we do get that payrolls
report at a time of increasing questions
around the US economy. Let's stick with
that economic data. Investors looking
ahead to next week's Fed decision and
other economic indicators. Vshaw Kanduja
of Morgan Stanley writing this. Given
the tariff revenue collections, we
believe that the next two inflation
prints will be reflective of the tariff
contribution. Bishaw joins us now and I
am curious about whether this is going
to be a one-time price shock or whether
this is going to have longer legs and
how much we've really gotten clarity
versus just people's expectation that
this will be just a one-time adjustment.
Good morning. Uh Lisa, definitely in
principle, it should be a one-time uh
adjustment. Again, tariffs, there are
only three spots that we can see the
effects. Either the exporters eat it up,
either companies through their profit
margins. We heard a couple of those in
the earnings more on the order side and
the OEM side showing up with one-time
charges there or it trickles through PPI
and CPI here in economic data. We saw a
little bit of all of that. Less of
exporters, more of profit margins and
CPI show us a little bit. I think as you
track the revenue uh from the tariffs
and as average rates start to uh go
through uh the economy, I think I think
the next two prints are going to get a
little steamy and a little bit more
contribution from there. But we still
think it's going to be a one-time bump
rather than a lingering effect that we
had seen in the prior years on the
>> to your point Vishall the tariff revenue
has been real. We have seen a bump in
what the US is taking in. What does that
tell you about how sticky these tariffs
are for the foreseeable future that this
isn't a story of the next four years?
But this is a tariff story that will
continue on beyond President Trump.
>> Absolutely. I think if you just uh
remove all the politics, midterms, uh
four four-year term, etc. out of the
picture and just mathematically extend
the clock out. Uh yes, this is going to
be a consumption tax which is going to
be five times more. But then companies
are resilience resilient and adjust. I
think they will take some profit margin
hits slightly more profit margin uh uh
sectors with high profit margins will
take a little bit more less on the
consumer side uh and then consumptions
uh consumption will adjust or consumers
will adjust as well. I know we are still
squinting to see the weakness in
consumption and consumer and labor
market but still there is that sort of
underlying weakness that is showing up
and we do think that consumption
patterns will adjust nominal GD GDP
should adjust down for that matter as
well.
>> What will it take to finally see that
show up visual because it has been some
time since we've seen any of that
weakness despite the constant calls for
it.
>> Yeah. No, I think it'll take time and
that's where it it it makes the Fed's
job uh difficult from our perspective. I
think why it is difficult to see this
and why it's taking time because balance
sheets both consumer and corporate
balance sheets coming into this 2025
uncertain environment from both fiscal
and monetary policy have been extremely
strong. I think you're sitting on a
consumer who is a homeowner uh is
sitting on 3% 30-year fixed rate. Even
the best hedge funds in the world don't
get that type of type of leverage and
their equity is up 25% at least on on on
their houses and we are running a four
decade low unemployment rate. So that
that balance sheet of that consumer is
extremely strong to uh take on some of
the uncertainties that we see and that's
why I think it's taking time for it to
seep through the economy.
>> Visual you said something in your notes
that I thought was fascinating when you
bleed this into the market. You said US
assets and US dollar are two separate
trades and this is something increasing
numbers of investors are coming around
to is that something that you expect to
be persistent bullish US assets bearish
US dollar.
>> Spot on. I think that's how our
portfolios are adjusted today as well.
Over the last like seven months we've
adjusted and steered our portfolios in
that direction. We still trying to ek
out that positive fundamentals from
consumer and corporate balance sheets
here. Not saying that there are not uh
some of the idiosyncratic idiosyncratic
strong fundamental balance sheets in
Europe and other parts of the emerging
market world as well. But I think that
dollar weakness I think is coming
primarily from that you know the the
urge from the administration. We've
heard it uh time and again from from
speakers and the not the fed speak but
more from DC on that part. And then
where the exceptionalism story is
landing us, it is much weaker dollar
from here rather than what we had seen
probably the last decade and a half. So
strong fundamentals from consumer and
corporate balance sheets, weak
fundamentals from the government balance
sheets and deficits which flows into
your currency and that's how portfolios
are positioned at the moment.
>> Just about 20 seconds you said much
weaker dollar. How much further does it
have to depreciate? I think in the next
probably two years we think that
probably around that 10 to 15% in a
basket of currencies we are not picking
one currency to go against uh in a
basket of DM and EM currencies that's
how we've reflected in our portfolios we
do think that there is a double digit
depreciation uh along the way again the
point being that it is not about US
treasury foreign buyers of US treasury
as a percentage of GDP has actually not
changed it is the foreign buyers of US
equities that are up probably 10 to 15%
% since the financial crisis that needs
to adjust. That's where some of the
hedging will come through and that's why
we think that that uh 10 to 15% is is
how we are thinking about it.
>> Vish Kaduja of Morgan Stanley, thank you
so much for being with us. Have a
wonderful wonderful weekend. Right now
we are getting some headlines from
President Trump touting the great
economic numbers still though arguing
for rate cut.
>> Yeah, great economic numbers does not
save Chair Powell. We'll see what he
says uh next week after that decision.
And we'll be speaking with a host of
wonderful guests on Monday. We've got
Steve Shiverone of Federated Hermes, Jay
Pilowski of TPW Advisory, Abby Yodar of
JP Morgan, and Steve Rashido of Missouo.
Danny, thank you so much. Always
wonderful to have you here. Love, love
your contributions. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]